content/solutions/deployment_blueprints/ai-ready_opennebula/finetuning_on_slurm_worker.md, before:

---
title: "How to finetune an LLM on a Slurm worker"
linkTitle: "Finetune LLM on Slurm"
weight: 8
---

<a id="finetuning_on_slurm_worker"></a>

This tutorial shows how to run LLM finetuning (Unsloth) on a **Slurm worker** appliance in OpenNebula.

You will learn how to:

* Install Slurm (controller and workers) from the OpenNebula marketplace.
* Configure the Slurm worker template (GPU and a start script that creates a folder, downloads the model, and installs dependencies at boot).
* Submit a finetuning job from the **Slurm controller** with a single command.

{{< alert title="Note" color="success" >}}
This guide uses an **NVIDIA H100L** and `nvidia-driver-570` as an example. If you use a different GPU, select the correct PCI device in Sunstone and install a compatible NVIDIA driver version.
{{< /alert >}}

---

## Install Slurm (controller and worker)

You need a running **OneGate** server so the controller can share the Munge key with workers. This is a hard requirements for the Slurm Controller node to be able to share the cluster Munge key. This server must be reachable by the Slurm Controller VM.

### Step 1: Deploy the Slurm Controller

1. **Import the Slurm Controller appliance** from the OpenNebula Marketplace. This downloads the VM template and disk image.

   ```shell
   onemarketapp export 'Service SlurmController' SlurmController --datastore default
   ```

2. **Adjust the SlurmController template** as needed (CPU, memory, disk size, network). Resource needs depend on cluster size (number of workers and jobs).

3. **Instantiate the Slurm Controller**:

   ```shell
   onetemplate instantiate SlurmController
   ```

4. **Wait for the controller to be ready:** SSH into the new SlurmController VM. The terminal will show configuration progress. When finished, you should see: **"All set and ready to serve 8)"**.

5. **Get the controller Munge key.** This key must be shared with all worker nodes for Slurm authentication:

   ```shell
   onevm show <VM-ID> | grep MUNGE
   ```

   Replace `<VM-ID>` with the ID of your SlurmController VM. Save the Munge key (base64) and the **Slurm Controller IP address**; you will need both when deploying workers.

### Step 2: Deploy the Slurm Worker(s)

1. **Import the Slurm Worker appliance** from the OpenNebula Marketplace.

   ```shell
   onemarketapp export 'Service SlurmWorker' SlurmWorker --datastore default
   ```

2. **Adjust the SlurmWorker template** as needed (CPU, memory, disk size, network). You will add GPU and other options later in this tutorial.

3. **Instantiate the Slurm Worker(s)** via the OpenNebula Sunstone web interface:
   * Set the **number of instances** (e.g. how many worker nodes you want).
   * Click **Next**.
   * When prompted, enter:
     * **Slurm Controller IP address** (the VM you deployed in Step 1). Ensure workers can reach this IP.
     * **Slurm Controller Munge key** (base64), from the `onevm show ... | grep MUNGE` output.

4. **Verify workers joined the cluster.** After a few minutes, on the **Slurm Controller** VM run:

   ```shell
   scontrol show nodes
   ```

   You should see your worker node(s) listed. You can then proceed to configure the worker template for finetuning (next section).

---

## Configure the Slurm worker template

This section adds GPU passthrough and a start script that, at boot, creates a folder, downloads the model, installs the NVIDIA driver and Python dependencies, and creates a sample finetuning script.

### Attach GPU to the worker

Add the GPU as a PCI device from **Sunstone**: **Templates** → **VM Templates** → **Update** the Slurm worker template → **Advanced options** → **PCI devices** tab. OpenNebula will insert the correct PCI class, device and vendor into the template.

<!-- Image: Sunstone PCI devices tab → img/sunstone-pci.png -->

### Add start script (create dir, download model, install dependencies)

Add the **start script** from **Sunstone**: **Templates** → **VM Templates** → **Update** the Slurm worker template → **Context** tab → paste the following into the **Start script** text field. 

The script creates `/opt/ai_model`, downloads the model and installs dependencies at boot. You can copy and paste it as-is; change the model ID or path if needed.

```bash
set -e
AI_DIR=/opt/ai_model

# Network: may not be required if DHCP/context already set resolv.conf and default route
echo "nameserver 8.8.8.8" > /etc/resolv.conf
ip route add default via 10.0.1.1

# Create dir for model, venv, and demo script
mkdir -p "$AI_DIR"

# System packages: NVIDIA driver + Python build deps and venv
apt update && apt install -y nvidia-driver-570 python3-pip python3-venv python3-dev build-essential
pip3 install --break-system-packages huggingface_hub
python3 -c "from huggingface_hub import snapshot_download; snapshot_download(repo_id='Qwen/Qwen2.5-1.5B-Instruct', local_dir='$AI_DIR')"
python3 -m venv "$AI_DIR/venv"
"$AI_DIR/venv/bin/pip" install --upgrade pip
"$AI_DIR/venv/bin/pip" install "numpy<2.4.0"
"$AI_DIR/venv/bin/pip" install unsloth datasets trl transformers

# Write Unsloth demo finetuning script
cat > "$AI_DIR/demo_finetune.py" << 'PYEOF'
#!/usr/bin/env python3
import os
from datasets import Dataset
from unsloth import FastLanguageModel
from trl import SFTTrainer
from transformers import TrainingArguments

MODEL_PATH = "/opt/ai_model"
OUTPUT_DIR = os.path.join(MODEL_PATH, "output")

alpaca = [
    {"instruction": "What is 2+2?", "input": "", "output": "4."},
    {"instruction": "Say hello in one word.", "input": "", "output": "Hello."},
    {"instruction": "Complete: The sky is", "input": "", "output": " blue."},
]

def fmt(e):
    return {"text": "### Instruction:\n{instruction}\n\n### Input:\n{input}\n\n### Response:\n{output}".format(**e)}

dataset = Dataset.from_list(alpaca)
dataset = dataset.map(fmt, remove_columns=dataset.column_names)

model, tokenizer = FastLanguageModel.from_pretrained(MODEL_PATH, max_seq_length=2048, dtype=None, load_in_4bit=True, local_files_only=True)
model = FastLanguageModel.get_peft_model(model, r=8, target_modules=["q_proj", "k_proj", "v_proj", "o_proj", "gate_proj", "up_proj", "down_proj"], lora_alpha=16, lora_dropout=0, bias="none", use_gradient_checkpointing="unsloth")

trainer = SFTTrainer(model=model, tokenizer=tokenizer, train_dataset=dataset, dataset_text_field="text", max_seq_length=2048, dataset_num_proc=1, packing=False, args=TrainingArguments(per_device_train_batch_size=2, gradient_accumulation_steps=2, max_steps=10, learning_rate=2e-4, bf16=True, output_dir=OUTPUT_DIR, report_to="none"))
os.makedirs(OUTPUT_DIR, exist_ok=True)
trainer.train()
model.save_pretrained_merged(OUTPUT_DIR, tokenizer, save_method="merged_16bit")
tokenizer.save_pretrained(OUTPUT_DIR)
print("Saved to", OUTPUT_DIR)
PYEOF

chmod +x "$AI_DIR/demo_finetune.py"
```

<!-- Image: Sunstone Context tab, Start script field → img/sunstone-context.png -->

Reboot the Slurm worker after the first driver install if required.

**Verify GPU on the Slurm worker:** Inside the Slurm worker VM, run these commands to confirm the NVIDIA driver is installed and the GPU is recognized:

```shell
lspci | grep -i nvidia
lspci -v -s 01:00.0
nvidia-smi
```

(Adapt the PCI address in `lspci -v -s 01:00.0` if your GPU is on a different bus.)

---

## Run the finetuning job from the Slurm controller

Before running the job:

* Check that the Slurm controller sees the Slurm worker (e.g. `sinfo` or `scontrol show nodes`).
* If you need to add or verify worker nodes, see the [Slurm Quick Start](https://github.com/OpenNebula/one-apps/wiki/slurm_quick).

<!-- Image: Slurm controller terminal (sinfo/srun, training output) → img/slurm-srun.png -->

On the **Slurm controller** VM, run the following command to start the finetuning on a Slurm worker (the start script has already created `/opt/ai_model` and the demo script there):

```shell
srun --job-name=demo_finetune -N1 -n1 /opt/ai_model/venv/bin/python /opt/ai_model/demo_finetune.py
```

Output goes to the terminal. To save it to a file: add `> demo_finetune.out 2>&1` at the end.

If everything goes well, you should see output similar to:

```
{'train_runtime': 5.067, 'train_samples_per_second': 7.894, 'train_steps_per_second': 1.974, 'train_loss': 1.8984880447387695, 'epoch': 10.0}
Saved to /opt/ai_model/output
```

---

## Summary

This tutorial showed how to run finetuning on a **Slurm worker** appliance in OpenNebula:

* Install Slurm (controller and workers) from the OpenNebula marketplace.
* Configure the Slurm worker template (PCI for GPU, start script that creates `/opt/ai_model`, downloads the model, installs driver and dependencies, and creates the demo script).
* Submit the job from the **Slurm controller** with a single `srun` command.

{{< alert title="Tip" color="success" >}}
After running finetuning on a Slurm worker, you may choose to validate your AI Factory with [Validation with LLM Inferencing]({{% relref "solutions/deployment_blueprints/ai-ready_opennebula/llm_inference_certification" %}}) or [Validation with AI-Ready Kubernetes]({{% relref "solutions/deployment_blueprints/ai-ready_opennebula/ai_ready_k8s" %}}).
{{< /alert >}}

Commit message:

Update finetuning guide for Slurm worker: clarify OneGate server requirements, streamline GPU passthrough and start script instructions, and enhance job submission details for improved user experience.

content/solutions/deployment_blueprints/ai-ready_opennebula/finetuning_on_slurm_worker.md, after:

---
title: "How to finetune an LLM on a Slurm worker"
linkTitle: "Finetune LLM on Slurm"
weight: 8
---

<a id="finetuning_on_slurm_worker"></a>

This tutorial shows how to run LLM finetuning (Unsloth) on a **Slurm worker** appliance in OpenNebula.

You will learn how to:

* Install Slurm (controller and workers) from the OpenNebula marketplace.
* Configure the Slurm worker template (GPU and a start script that creates a folder, downloads the model, and installs dependencies at boot).
* Submit a finetuning job from the **Slurm controller** with a single command.

{{< alert title="Note" color="success" >}}
This guide uses an **NVIDIA H100L** and `nvidia-driver-570` as an example. If you use a different GPU, select the correct PCI device in Sunstone and install a compatible NVIDIA driver version.
{{< /alert >}}

---

## Install Slurm (controller and worker)

You need a running **[OneGate](https://docs.opennebula.io/7.0/product/operation_references/opennebula_services_configuration/onegate/)** server (reachable by the Slurm Controller VM) so the controller can share the Munge key with workers.

### Step 1: Deploy the Slurm Controller

1. **Import the Slurm Controller appliance** from the OpenNebula Marketplace. This downloads the VM template and disk image.

   ```shell
   onemarketapp export 'Service SlurmController' SlurmController --datastore default
   ```

2. **Adjust the SlurmController template** as needed (CPU, memory, disk size, network). Resource needs depend on cluster size (number of workers and jobs).

3. **Instantiate the Slurm Controller**:

   ```shell
   onetemplate instantiate SlurmController
   ```

4. **Wait for the controller to be ready:** SSH into the new SlurmController VM. The terminal will show configuration progress. When finished, you should see: **"All set and ready to serve 8)"**.

5. **Get the controller Munge key.** This key must be shared with all worker nodes for Slurm authentication:

   ```shell
   onevm show <VM-ID> | grep MUNGE
   ```

   Replace `<VM-ID>` with the ID of your SlurmController VM. Save the Munge key (base64) and the **Slurm Controller IP address**; you will need both when deploying workers.

### Step 2: Deploy the Slurm Worker(s)

1. **Import the Slurm Worker appliance** from the OpenNebula Marketplace.

   ```shell
   onemarketapp export 'Service SlurmWorker' SlurmWorker --datastore default
   ```

2. **Adjust the SlurmWorker template** as needed (CPU, memory, disk size, network). You will add GPU and other options later in this tutorial.

3. **Instantiate the Slurm Worker(s)** via the OpenNebula Sunstone web interface:
   * Set the **number of instances** (e.g. how many worker nodes you want).
   * Click **Next**.
   * When prompted, enter:
     * **Slurm Controller IP address** (the VM you deployed in Step 1). Ensure workers can reach this IP.
     * **Slurm Controller Munge key** (base64), from the `onevm show ... | grep MUNGE` output.

4. **Verify workers joined the cluster.** After a few minutes, on the **Slurm Controller** VM run:

   ```shell
   scontrol show nodes
   ```

   Then configure the worker template for finetuning (next section).

---

## Configure the Slurm worker template

Add GPU passthrough and a start script that at boot creates `/opt/ai_model`, downloads the model, and installs the NVIDIA driver and Python dependencies.

### Attach GPU to the worker

**Sunstone** → **Templates** → **VM Templates** → **Update** the Slurm worker template → **Advanced options** → **PCI devices** tab. Add the GPU; OpenNebula fills in PCI class, device and vendor.

<!-- Image: Sunstone PCI devices tab → img/sunstone-pci.png -->

### Add start script (create dir, download model, install dependencies)

Same template → **Context** tab → **Start script** → paste the following. Change the model ID or path if needed. The nameserver and ip route lines may be unnecessary if your network or context already sets DNS and default gateway.

```bash
set -e
AI_DIR=/opt/ai_model

# Network: may not be required if DHCP/context already set resolv.conf and default route
echo "nameserver 8.8.8.8" > /etc/resolv.conf
ip route add default via 10.0.1.1

# Create dir for model, venv, and demo script
mkdir -p "$AI_DIR"

# System packages: NVIDIA driver + Python build deps and venv
apt update && apt install -y nvidia-driver-570 python3-pip python3-venv python3-dev build-essential
pip3 install --break-system-packages huggingface_hub
python3 -c "from huggingface_hub import snapshot_download; snapshot_download(repo_id='Qwen/Qwen2.5-1.5B-Instruct', local_dir='$AI_DIR')"
python3 -m venv "$AI_DIR/venv"
"$AI_DIR/venv/bin/pip" install --upgrade pip
"$AI_DIR/venv/bin/pip" install "numpy<2.4.0"
"$AI_DIR/venv/bin/pip" install unsloth datasets trl transformers

# Write Unsloth demo finetuning script
cat > "$AI_DIR/demo_finetune.py" << 'PYEOF'
#!/usr/bin/env python3
import os
from datasets import Dataset
from unsloth import FastLanguageModel
from trl import SFTTrainer
from transformers import TrainingArguments

MODEL_PATH = "/opt/ai_model"
OUTPUT_DIR = os.path.join(MODEL_PATH, "output")

alpaca = [
    {"instruction": "What is 2+2?", "input": "", "output": "4."},
    {"instruction": "Say hello in one word.", "input": "", "output": "Hello."},
    {"instruction": "Complete: The sky is", "input": "", "output": " blue."},
]

def fmt(e):
    return {"text": "### Instruction:\n{instruction}\n\n### Input:\n{input}\n\n### Response:\n{output}".format(**e)}

dataset = Dataset.from_list(alpaca)
dataset = dataset.map(fmt, remove_columns=dataset.column_names)

model, tokenizer = FastLanguageModel.from_pretrained(MODEL_PATH, max_seq_length=2048, dtype=None, load_in_4bit=True, local_files_only=True)
model = FastLanguageModel.get_peft_model(model, r=8, target_modules=["q_proj", "k_proj", "v_proj", "o_proj", "gate_proj", "up_proj", "down_proj"], lora_alpha=16, lora_dropout=0, bias="none", use_gradient_checkpointing="unsloth")

trainer = SFTTrainer(model=model, tokenizer=tokenizer, train_dataset=dataset, dataset_text_field="text", max_seq_length=2048, dataset_num_proc=1, packing=False, args=TrainingArguments(per_device_train_batch_size=2, gradient_accumulation_steps=2, max_steps=10, learning_rate=2e-4, bf16=True, output_dir=OUTPUT_DIR, report_to="none"))
os.makedirs(OUTPUT_DIR, exist_ok=True)
trainer.train()
model.save_pretrained_merged(OUTPUT_DIR, tokenizer, save_method="merged_16bit")
tokenizer.save_pretrained(OUTPUT_DIR)
print("Saved to", OUTPUT_DIR)
PYEOF

chmod +x "$AI_DIR/demo_finetune.py"
```

<!-- Image: Sunstone Context tab, Start script field → img/sunstone-context.png -->

**Verify GPU** (on the worker):

```shell
lspci | grep -i nvidia
lspci -v -s 01:00.0
nvidia-smi
```

(Adapt the PCI address in `lspci -v -s 01:00.0` if your GPU is on a different bus.)

---

## Run the finetuning job from the Slurm controller

<!-- Image: Slurm controller terminal (sinfo/srun, training output) → img/slurm-srun.png -->

On the **Slurm controller** VM:

```shell
srun --job-name=demo_finetune -N1 -n1 /opt/ai_model/venv/bin/python /opt/ai_model/demo_finetune.py
```

To save output to a file, append `> demo_finetune.out 2>&1`. Example output:

```
{'train_runtime': 5.067, 'train_samples_per_second': 7.894, 'train_steps_per_second': 1.974, 'train_loss': 1.8984880447387695, 'epoch': 10.0}
Saved to /opt/ai_model/output
```

---

## Summary

You installed Slurm (controller and workers), configured the worker template with GPU and a start script that sets up `/opt/ai_model` and dependencies at boot, and submitted the finetuning job with `srun` from the Slurm controller.

{{< alert title="Tip" color="success" >}}
After running finetuning on a Slurm worker, you may choose to validate your AI Factory with [Validation with LLM Inferencing]({{% relref "solutions/deployment_blueprints/ai-ready_opennebula/llm_inference_certification" %}}) or [Validation with AI-Ready Kubernetes]({{% relref "solutions/deployment_blueprints/ai-ready_opennebula/ai_ready_k8s" %}}).
{{< /alert >}}
