content/software/installation_process/manual_installation/lxc_node_installation.md, before:

---
title: "LXC Node Installation"
date: "2025-02-17"
description:
categories:
pageintoc: "180"
tags:
weight: "7"
---

<a id="lxd-node"></a>

<a id="lxc-node"></a>

<!--# LXC Node Installation -->

This page shows you how to configure OpenNebula LXC Node from the binary packages.

{{< alert title="Note" color="success" >}}
Before reading this chapter, you should have at least installed your [Front-end node]({{% relref "front_end_installation" %}}).{{< /alert >}} 

## Step 1. Add OpenNebula Repositories

Refer to [OpenNebula Repositories]({{% relref "opennebula_repository_configuration#repositories" %}}) guide to add the **Enterprise** and **Community** Edition software repositories.

## Step 2. Installing the Software

### Installing on AlmaLinux/RHEL

#### Repository EPEL

OpenNebula depends on packages which aren’t in the base distribution repositories. Execute one of the commands below (distinguished by the Host platform) to configure access to additional [EPEL](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL) (Extra Packages for Enterprise Linux) repository:

**AlmaLinux**

```default
# yum -y install epel-release
```

**RHEL 8**

```default
# rpm -ivh https://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/epel-release-latest-8.noarch.rpm
```

**RHEL 9**

```default
# rpm -ivh https://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/epel-release-latest-9.noarch.rpm
```

### Install OpenNebula LXC Node Package

Execute the following commands to install the OpenNebula LXC Node package:

#### Installing on AlmaLinux/RHEL

```default
# yum -y install opennebula-node-lxc
```

#### Installing on Debian/Ubuntu

```default
# apt-get update
# apt-get -y install opennebula-node-lxc
```

Install the suggested package `rbd-nbd` if the Ceph Datastore is going to be used by the LXC Hosts. For further configuration check the specific [guide]({{% relref "lxc_driver#lxcmg" %}}).

## Step 3. Disable SELinux on AlmaLinux/RHEL (Optional)

Depending on the type of OpenNebula deployment, the SELinux can block some operations initiated by the OpenNebula Front-end, which results in a failure of the particular operation.  It’s **not recommended to disable** the SELinux on production environments, as it degrades the security of your server, but to investigate and work around each individual problem based on the [SELinux User’s and Administrator’s Guide](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/7/html/selinux_users_and_administrators_guide/). The administrator might disable the SELinux to temporarily work around the problem or on non-production deployments by changing the following line in `/etc/selinux/config`:

```default
SELINUX=disabled
```

After the change, you have to reboot the machine.

{{< alert title="Note" color="success" >}}
Depending on your OpenNebula deployment type, the following may be required on your SELinux-enabled nodes:

* package `util-linux` newer than 2.23.2-51 installed
* SELinux boolean `virt_use_nfs` enabled (with datastores on NFS):

```default
# setsebool -P virt_use_nfs on
```{{< /alert >}}  

## Step 4. Configure Passwordless SSH

The OpenNebula Front-end connects to the hypervisor nodes using SSH. Following connection types are being established:

- from Front-end to Front-end
- from Front-end to hypervisor node
- from Front-end to hypervisor node with another connection within to another Node (for migration operations)
- from Front-end to hypervisor node with another connection within back to Front-end (for data copy back)

{{< alert title="Important" color="success" >}}
It must be ensured that Front-end and all nodes **can connect to each other** over SSH without manual intervention.{{< /alert >}} 

When OpenNebula server package is installed on the Front-end, an SSH key pair is automatically generated for the `oneadmin` user into `/var/lib/one/.ssh/id_rsa` and `/var/lib/one/.ssh/id_rsa.pub`, the public key is also added into `/var/lib/one/.ssh/authorized_keys`. It happens only if these files don’t exist yet; existing files (e.g., leftovers from previous installations) are not touched! For new installations the [default SSH configuration]({{% relref "advanced_ssh_usage#node-ssh-config" %}}) is placed for the `oneadmin` from `/usr/share/one/ssh` into `/var/lib/one/.ssh/config`.

To enable passwordless connections you must distribute the public key of the `oneadmin` user from the Front-end to `/var/lib/one/.ssh/authorized_keys` on all hypervisor nodes. There are many methods to achieve the distribution of the SSH keys. Ultimately the administrator should choose a method; the recommendation is to use a configuration management system (e.g., Ansible or Puppet). In this guide, we are going to manually use SSH tools.

**Since OpenNebula 5.12**. The Front-end runs a dedicated **SSH authentication agent** service which imports the `oneadmin`’s private key on start. Access to this agent is delegated (forwarded) from the OpenNebula Front-end to the hypervisor nodes for the operations which need to connect between nodes or back to the Front-end. While the authentication agent is used, you **don’t need to distribute private SSH key from Front-end** to hypervisor nodes!

To learn more about the SSH, read the [Advanced SSH Usage]({{% relref "advanced_ssh_usage#node-ssh" %}}) guide.

### A. Populate Host SSH Keys

You should prepare and further manage the list of host SSH public keys of your nodes (a.k.a. `known_hosts`) so that all communicating parties know the identity of the other sides. The file is located in `/var/lib/one/.ssh/known_hosts` and we can use the command `ssh-keyscan` to manually create it. It should be executed on your Front-end under the `oneadmin` user and copied on all your nodes.

{{< alert title="Important" color="success" >}}
You’ll need to update and redistribute file with Host keys every time any Host is reinstalled or its keys are regenerated.{{< /alert >}} 

{{< alert title="Important" color="success" >}}
If [default SSH configuration]({{% relref "advanced_ssh_usage#node-ssh-config" %}}) shipped with OpenNebula is used, the SSH client automatically accepts Host keys on the first connection. That makes this step optional, as the `known_hosts` will be incrementally automatically generated on your infrastructure when the various connections happen. While this simplifies the initial deployment, it lowers the security of your infrastructure. We highly recommend to populate `known_hosts` on your infrastructure in a controlled manner!{{< /alert >}} 

Make sure you are logged in on your Front-end and run the commands as `oneadmin`, e.g., by typing:

```default
# su - oneadmin
```

Create the `known_hosts` file by running following command with all the node names including the Front-end as parameters:

```default
$ ssh-keyscan <frontend> <node1> <node2> <node3> ... >> /var/lib/one/.ssh/known_hosts
```

### B. Distribute Authentication Configuration

To enable passwordless login on your infrastructure, you must copy authentication configuration for `oneadmin` user from Front-end to all your nodes. We’ll distribute only `known_hosts` created in the previous section and `oneadmin`’s SSH public key from Front-end to your nodes. We **don’t need to distribute oneadmin’s SSH private key** from Front-end as it’ll be securely delegated from Front-end to hypervisor nodes with the default **SSH authentication agent** service running on the Front-end.

Make sure you are logged in on your Front-end and run the commands as `oneadmin`, e.g., by typing:

```default
# su - oneadmin
```

Enable passwordless logins by executing the following command for each of your nodes. For example:

```default
$ ssh-copy-id -i /var/lib/one/.ssh/id_rsa.pub <node1>
$ ssh-copy-id -i /var/lib/one/.ssh/id_rsa.pub <node2>
$ ssh-copy-id -i /var/lib/one/.ssh/id_rsa.pub <node3>
```

If the list of host SSH public keys was created in the previous section, distribute the `known_hosts` file to each of your nodes. For example:

```default
$ scp -p /var/lib/one/.ssh/known_hosts <node1>:/var/lib/one/.ssh/
$ scp -p /var/lib/one/.ssh/known_hosts <node2>:/var/lib/one/.ssh/
$ scp -p /var/lib/one/.ssh/known_hosts <node3>:/var/lib/one/.ssh/
```

#### Without SSH Authentication Agent (Optional)

{{< alert title="Warning" color="warning" >}}
**Not Recommended**. If you don’t use integrated SSH authentication agent service (which is initially enabled) on the Front-end, you’ll have to distribute also `oneadmin`’s private SSH key on your hypervisor nodes to allow connections among nodes and from nodes to Front-end. For security reasons, it’s recommended to use SSH authentication agent service and **avoid this step**.

If you need to distribute `oneadmin`’s private SSH key on your nodes, proceed with steps above and continue with following extra commands for all your nodes. For example:

```default
$ scp -p /var/lib/one/.ssh/id_rsa <node1>:/var/lib/one/.ssh/
$ scp -p /var/lib/one/.ssh/id_rsa <node2>:/var/lib/one/.ssh/
$ scp -p /var/lib/one/.ssh/id_rsa <node3>:/var/lib/one/.ssh/
```{{< /alert >}}  

### C. Validate Connections

You should verify that none of these connections (under user `oneadmin`) fail and none require a password:

* from the Front-end to Front-end itself
* from the Front-end to all nodes
* from all nodes to all nodes
* from all nodes back to Front-end

For example, execute on the Front-end:

```default
# from Front-end to Front-end itself
$ ssh <frontend>
$ exit

# from Front-end to node, back to Front-end and to other nodes
$ ssh <node1>
$ ssh <frontend>
$ exit
$ ssh <node2>
$ exit
$ ssh <node3>
$ exit
$ exit

# from Front-end to node, back to Front-end and to other nodes
$ ssh <node2>
$ ssh <frontend>
$ exit
$ ssh <node1>
$ exit
$ ssh <node3>
$ exit
$ exit

# from Front-end to nodes and back to Front-end and other nodes
$ ssh <node3>
$ ssh <frontend>
$ exit
$ ssh <node1>
$ exit
$ ssh <node2>
$ exit
$ exit
```

## Step 5.  Networking Configuration

![image](/images/network-02.png)
<!-- TODO - This needs rework or drop. -->

Network connection is needed by the OpenNebula Front-end Daemons to access, manage, and monitor the Hosts, and to transfer the Image files. It is highly recommended to use a dedicated network for this purpose.

There are various models for virtual networks, check the [Open Cloud Networking]({{% relref "../../../product/cloud_clusters_infrastructure_configuration/networking_system_configuration/overview#nm" %}}) Chapter to find the ones supported by OpenNebula.

You may want to use the simplest network model that corresponds to the [bridged]({{% relref "bridged#bridged" %}}) driver. For this driver, you will need to set up a Linux bridge and include a physical device in the bridge. Later on, when defining the network in OpenNebula, you will specify the name of this bridge and OpenNebula will know that it should connect the VM to this bridge, thus giving it connectivity with the physical network device connected to the bridge. For example, a typical Host with two physical networks, one for public IP addresses (attached to an `eth0` NIC for example) and the other for private virtual LANs (NIC `eth1` for example) should have two bridges:

```default
# ip link show type bridge
4: br0: ...
5: br1: ...

# ip link show master br0
2: eth0: ...

# ip link show master br1
3: eth1: ...
```

{{< alert title="Note" color="success" >}}
Remember that this is only required in the Hosts, not in the Front-end. Also remember that the exact name of the resources is not important (`br0`, `br1`, etc…), however it’s important that the bridges and NICs have the same name in all the Hosts.{{< /alert >}} 

## Step 6.  Storage Configuration

In default OpenNebula configuration, the local storage is used for storing Images and running Virtual Machines. This is enough for basic use and you don’t need to take any extra steps now unless you want to deploy an advanced storage solution.

Follow the [Open Cloud Storage Setup]({{% relref "../../../product/cloud_clusters_infrastructure_configuration/storage_system_configuration/overview#storage" %}}) guide to learn how to use Ceph, NFS, LVM, etc.

## Step 7. Adding Host to OpenNebula

In this step, we’ll register the hypervisor node we have configured above into the OpenNebula Front-end, so that OpenNebula can launch Virtual Machines on it. This step is documented for Sunstone GUI and CLI, but both accomplish the same result. Select and proceed with just one of the two options.

Learn more in [Hosts and Clusters Management]({{% relref "../../../product/cloud_clusters_infrastructure_configuration/hosts_and_clusters_configuration/overview#hostsubsystem" %}}).

{{< alert title="Note" color="success" >}}
If the host turns to `err` state instead of `on`, check OpenNebula log `/var/log/one/oned.log`. The problem might be with connecting over SSH.{{< /alert >}} 

### Add Host with Sunstone

Open Sunstone as documented [here]({{% relref "front_end_installation#verify-frontend-section-sunstone" %}}). On the left side menu go to **Infrastructure** → **Hosts**. Click on the `+` button.

![sunstone_select_create_host](/images/sunstone_select_create_host.png)

Then fill in the hostname, FQDN, or IP of the node in the `Hostname` field.

![sunstone_create_host_dialog](/images/sunstone_create_host_dialog_lxc.png)

Finally, return back to the **Hosts** list, and check that the Host has switched to `ON` status. It can take up to one minute. You can click on the refresh button to check the status more frequently.

![sunstone_list_hosts](/images/sunstone_list_hosts.png)

### Add Host with CLI

To add a node to the cloud, run this command as `oneadmin` in the Front-end (replace `<node01>` with your node hostname):

```default
$ onehost create <node01> -i lxc -v lxc

$ onehost list
  ID NAME            CLUSTER   RVM      ALLOCATED_CPU      ALLOCATED_MEM STAT
   1 localhost       default     0                  -                  - init

# After some time (up to 1 minute)

$ onehost list
  ID NAME            CLUSTER   RVM      ALLOCATED_CPU      ALLOCATED_MEM STAT
   0 node01          default     0       0 / 400 (0%)     0K / 7.7G (0%) on
```

## Next steps

Now, you can continue with:

- configuring [Storage]({{% relref "../../../product/cloud_clusters_infrastructure_configuration/storage_system_configuration/overview#storage" %}}) and [Networking]({{% relref "../../../product/cloud_clusters_infrastructure_configuration/networking_system_configuration/overview#nm" %}})
- exploring [Management and Operations]({{% relref "../../index#operations-guide" %}}) guide

to extend and control your cloud.

Commit message:

M #-: Minor mods in Software section (#121)
Improve & move KVM & LXC node installation overviews

---------

Signed-off-by: Pedro Ielpi <pielpi@opennebula.io>

content/software/installation_process/manual_installation/lxc_node_installation.md, after:

---
title: "LXC Node Installation"
date: "2025-02-17"
description:
categories:
pageintoc: "180"
tags:
weight: "7"
---

<a id="lxd-node"></a>

<a id="lxc-node"></a>

<!--# LXC Node Installation -->

This page shows you how to configure OpenNebula LXC Node from the binary packages.

{{< alert title="Note" color="success" >}}
Before reading this chapter, you should have at least installed your [Front-end node]({{% relref "front_end_installation" %}}).{{< /alert >}}

## Overview

[LXC](https://linuxcontainers.org/lxc/introduction/) is a Linux technology which allows us to create and manage system and application containers. The containers are computing environments running on a particular hypervisor node alongside other containers or Host services, but secured and isolated in their own namespaces (user, process, network).

From the perspective of a hypervisor node, such a container environment is just an additional process tree among other hypervisor processes. Inside of the environment, it looks like a standard Linux installation that sees only its own resources but shares the Host kernel.

To understand the specific requirements, functionalities, and limitations of the LXC driver, see [LXC Driver]({{% relref "lxc_driver" %}}).

You can then check the [Storage]({{% relref "../../../product/cloud_clusters_infrastructure_configuration/storage_system_configuration/overview" %}}) and [Networking]({{% relref "../../../product/cloud_clusters_infrastructure_configuration/networking_system_configuration/overview" %}}) system configuration sections to deploy Virtual Machines on your LXC nodes and access them remotely over the network.

## Step 1. Add OpenNebula Repositories

Refer to [OpenNebula Repositories]({{% relref "opennebula_repository_configuration#repositories" %}}) guide to add the **Enterprise** and **Community** Edition software repositories.

## Step 2. Installing the Software

### Installing on AlmaLinux/RHEL

#### Repository EPEL

OpenNebula depends on packages which aren’t in the base distribution repositories. Execute one of the commands below (distinguished by the Host platform) to configure access to additional [EPEL](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL) (Extra Packages for Enterprise Linux) repository:

**AlmaLinux**

```default
# yum -y install epel-release
```

**RHEL 8**

```default
# rpm -ivh https://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/epel-release-latest-8.noarch.rpm
```

**RHEL 9**

```default
# rpm -ivh https://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/epel-release-latest-9.noarch.rpm
```

### Install OpenNebula LXC Node Package

Execute the following commands to install the OpenNebula LXC Node package:

#### Installing on AlmaLinux/RHEL

```default
# yum -y install opennebula-node-lxc
```

#### Installing on Debian/Ubuntu

```default
# apt-get update
# apt-get -y install opennebula-node-lxc
```

Install the suggested package `rbd-nbd` if the Ceph Datastore is going to be used by the LXC Hosts. For further configuration check the specific [guide]({{% relref "lxc_driver#lxcmg" %}}).

## Step 3. Disable SELinux on AlmaLinux/RHEL (Optional)

Depending on the type of OpenNebula deployment, the SELinux can block some operations initiated by the OpenNebula Front-end, which results in a failure of the particular operation.  It’s **not recommended to disable** the SELinux on production environments, as it degrades the security of your server, but to investigate and work around each individual problem based on the [SELinux User’s and Administrator’s Guide](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/7/html/selinux_users_and_administrators_guide/). The administrator might disable the SELinux to temporarily work around the problem or on non-production deployments by changing the following line in `/etc/selinux/config`:

```default
SELINUX=disabled
```

After the change, you have to reboot the machine.

{{< alert title="Note" color="success" >}}
Depending on your OpenNebula deployment type, the following may be required on your SELinux-enabled nodes:

* package `util-linux` newer than 2.23.2-51 installed
* SELinux boolean `virt_use_nfs` enabled (with datastores on NFS):

```default
# setsebool -P virt_use_nfs on
```{{< /alert >}}  

## Step 4. Configure Passwordless SSH

The OpenNebula Front-end connects to the hypervisor nodes using SSH. Following connection types are being established:

- from Front-end to Front-end
- from Front-end to hypervisor node
- from Front-end to hypervisor node with another connection within to another Node (for migration operations)
- from Front-end to hypervisor node with another connection within back to Front-end (for data copy back)

{{< alert title="Important" color="success" >}}
It must be ensured that Front-end and all nodes **can connect to each other** over SSH without manual intervention.{{< /alert >}} 

When OpenNebula server package is installed on the Front-end, an SSH key pair is automatically generated for the `oneadmin` user into `/var/lib/one/.ssh/id_rsa` and `/var/lib/one/.ssh/id_rsa.pub`, the public key is also added into `/var/lib/one/.ssh/authorized_keys`. It happens only if these files don’t exist yet; existing files (e.g., leftovers from previous installations) are not touched! For new installations the [default SSH configuration]({{% relref "advanced_ssh_usage#node-ssh-config" %}}) is placed for the `oneadmin` from `/usr/share/one/ssh` into `/var/lib/one/.ssh/config`.

To enable passwordless connections you must distribute the public key of the `oneadmin` user from the Front-end to `/var/lib/one/.ssh/authorized_keys` on all hypervisor nodes. There are many methods to achieve the distribution of the SSH keys. Ultimately the administrator should choose a method; the recommendation is to use a configuration management system (e.g., Ansible or Puppet). In this guide, we are going to manually use SSH tools.

**Since OpenNebula 5.12**. The Front-end runs a dedicated **SSH authentication agent** service which imports the `oneadmin`’s private key on start. Access to this agent is delegated (forwarded) from the OpenNebula Front-end to the hypervisor nodes for the operations which need to connect between nodes or back to the Front-end. While the authentication agent is used, you **don’t need to distribute private SSH key from Front-end** to hypervisor nodes!

To learn more about the SSH, read the [Advanced SSH Usage]({{% relref "advanced_ssh_usage#node-ssh" %}}) guide.

### A. Populate Host SSH Keys

You should prepare and further manage the list of host SSH public keys of your nodes (a.k.a. `known_hosts`) so that all communicating parties know the identity of the other sides. The file is located in `/var/lib/one/.ssh/known_hosts` and we can use the command `ssh-keyscan` to manually create it. It should be executed on your Front-end under the `oneadmin` user and copied on all your nodes.

{{< alert title="Important" color="success" >}}
You’ll need to update and redistribute file with Host keys every time any Host is reinstalled or its keys are regenerated.{{< /alert >}} 

{{< alert title="Important" color="success" >}}
If [default SSH configuration]({{% relref "advanced_ssh_usage#node-ssh-config" %}}) shipped with OpenNebula is used, the SSH client automatically accepts Host keys on the first connection. That makes this step optional, as the `known_hosts` will be incrementally automatically generated on your infrastructure when the various connections happen. While this simplifies the initial deployment, it lowers the security of your infrastructure. We highly recommend to populate `known_hosts` on your infrastructure in a controlled manner!{{< /alert >}} 

Make sure you are logged in on your Front-end and run the commands as `oneadmin`, e.g., by typing:

```default
# su - oneadmin
```

Create the `known_hosts` file by running following command with all the node names including the Front-end as parameters:

```default
$ ssh-keyscan <frontend> <node1> <node2> <node3> ... >> /var/lib/one/.ssh/known_hosts
```

### B. Distribute Authentication Configuration

To enable passwordless login on your infrastructure, you must copy authentication configuration for `oneadmin` user from Front-end to all your nodes. We’ll distribute only `known_hosts` created in the previous section and `oneadmin`’s SSH public key from Front-end to your nodes. We **don’t need to distribute oneadmin’s SSH private key** from Front-end as it’ll be securely delegated from Front-end to hypervisor nodes with the default **SSH authentication agent** service running on the Front-end.

Make sure you are logged in on your Front-end and run the commands as `oneadmin`, e.g., by typing:

```default
# su - oneadmin
```

Enable passwordless logins by executing the following command for each of your nodes. For example:

```default
$ ssh-copy-id -i /var/lib/one/.ssh/id_rsa.pub <node1>
$ ssh-copy-id -i /var/lib/one/.ssh/id_rsa.pub <node2>
$ ssh-copy-id -i /var/lib/one/.ssh/id_rsa.pub <node3>
```

If the list of host SSH public keys was created in the previous section, distribute the `known_hosts` file to each of your nodes. For example:

```default
$ scp -p /var/lib/one/.ssh/known_hosts <node1>:/var/lib/one/.ssh/
$ scp -p /var/lib/one/.ssh/known_hosts <node2>:/var/lib/one/.ssh/
$ scp -p /var/lib/one/.ssh/known_hosts <node3>:/var/lib/one/.ssh/
```

#### Without SSH Authentication Agent (Optional)

{{< alert title="Warning" color="warning" >}}
**Not Recommended**. If you don’t use integrated SSH authentication agent service (which is initially enabled) on the Front-end, you’ll have to distribute also `oneadmin`’s private SSH key on your hypervisor nodes to allow connections among nodes and from nodes to Front-end. For security reasons, it’s recommended to use SSH authentication agent service and **avoid this step**.

If you need to distribute `oneadmin`’s private SSH key on your nodes, proceed with steps above and continue with following extra commands for all your nodes. For example:

```default
$ scp -p /var/lib/one/.ssh/id_rsa <node1>:/var/lib/one/.ssh/
$ scp -p /var/lib/one/.ssh/id_rsa <node2>:/var/lib/one/.ssh/
$ scp -p /var/lib/one/.ssh/id_rsa <node3>:/var/lib/one/.ssh/
```{{< /alert >}}  

### C. Validate Connections

You should verify that none of these connections (under user `oneadmin`) fail and none require a password:

* from the Front-end to Front-end itself
* from the Front-end to all nodes
* from all nodes to all nodes
* from all nodes back to Front-end

For example, execute on the Front-end:

```default
# from Front-end to Front-end itself
$ ssh <frontend>
$ exit

# from Front-end to node, back to Front-end and to other nodes
$ ssh <node1>
$ ssh <frontend>
$ exit
$ ssh <node2>
$ exit
$ ssh <node3>
$ exit
$ exit

# from Front-end to node, back to Front-end and to other nodes
$ ssh <node2>
$ ssh <frontend>
$ exit
$ ssh <node1>
$ exit
$ ssh <node3>
$ exit
$ exit

# from Front-end to nodes and back to Front-end and other nodes
$ ssh <node3>
$ ssh <frontend>
$ exit
$ ssh <node1>
$ exit
$ ssh <node2>
$ exit
$ exit
```

## Step 5.  Networking Configuration

![image](/images/network-02.png)
<!-- TODO - This needs rework or drop. -->

Network connection is needed by the OpenNebula Front-end Daemons to access, manage, and monitor the Hosts, and to transfer the Image files. It is highly recommended to use a dedicated network for this purpose.

There are various models for virtual networks, check the [Open Cloud Networking]({{% relref "../../../product/cloud_clusters_infrastructure_configuration/networking_system_configuration/overview#nm" %}}) Chapter to find the ones supported by OpenNebula.

You may want to use the simplest network model that corresponds to the [bridged]({{% relref "bridged#bridged" %}}) driver. For this driver, you will need to set up a Linux bridge and include a physical device in the bridge. Later on, when defining the network in OpenNebula, you will specify the name of this bridge and OpenNebula will know that it should connect the VM to this bridge, thus giving it connectivity with the physical network device connected to the bridge. For example, a typical Host with two physical networks, one for public IP addresses (attached to an `eth0` NIC for example) and the other for private virtual LANs (NIC `eth1` for example) should have two bridges:

```default
# ip link show type bridge
4: br0: ...
5: br1: ...

# ip link show master br0
2: eth0: ...

# ip link show master br1
3: eth1: ...
```

{{< alert title="Note" color="success" >}}
Remember that this is only required in the Hosts, not in the Front-end. Also remember that the exact name of the resources is not important (`br0`, `br1`, etc…), however it’s important that the bridges and NICs have the same name in all the Hosts.{{< /alert >}} 

## Step 6.  Storage Configuration

In default OpenNebula configuration, the local storage is used for storing Images and running Virtual Machines. This is enough for basic use and you don’t need to take any extra steps now unless you want to deploy an advanced storage solution.

Follow the [Open Cloud Storage Setup]({{% relref "../../../product/cloud_clusters_infrastructure_configuration/storage_system_configuration/overview#storage" %}}) guide to learn how to use Ceph, NFS, LVM, etc.

## Step 7. Adding Host to OpenNebula

In this step, we’ll register the hypervisor node we have configured above into the OpenNebula Front-end, so that OpenNebula can launch Virtual Machines on it. This step is documented for Sunstone GUI and CLI, but both accomplish the same result. Select and proceed with just one of the two options.

Learn more in [Hosts and Clusters Management]({{% relref "../../../product/cloud_clusters_infrastructure_configuration/hosts_and_clusters_configuration/overview#hostsubsystem" %}}).

{{< alert title="Note" color="success" >}}
If the host turns to `err` state instead of `on`, check OpenNebula log `/var/log/one/oned.log`. The problem might be with connecting over SSH.{{< /alert >}} 

### Add Host with Sunstone

Open Sunstone as documented [here]({{% relref "front_end_installation#verify-frontend-section-sunstone" %}}). On the left side menu go to **Infrastructure** → **Hosts**. Click on the `+` button.

![sunstone_select_create_host](/images/sunstone_select_create_host.png)

Then fill in the hostname, FQDN, or IP of the node in the `Hostname` field.

![sunstone_create_host_dialog](/images/sunstone_create_host_dialog_lxc.png)

Finally, return back to the **Hosts** list, and check that the Host has switched to `ON` status. It can take up to one minute. You can click on the refresh button to check the status more frequently.

![sunstone_list_hosts](/images/sunstone_list_hosts.png)

### Add Host with CLI

To add a node to the cloud, run this command as `oneadmin` in the Front-end (replace `<node01>` with your node hostname):

```default
$ onehost create <node01> -i lxc -v lxc

$ onehost list
  ID NAME            CLUSTER   RVM      ALLOCATED_CPU      ALLOCATED_MEM STAT
   1 localhost       default     0                  -                  - init

# After some time (up to 1 minute)

$ onehost list
  ID NAME            CLUSTER   RVM      ALLOCATED_CPU      ALLOCATED_MEM STAT
   0 node01          default     0       0 / 400 (0%)     0K / 7.7G (0%) on
```

## Next steps

Now, you can continue by controlling and extending your cloud:

- Configuring [Storage]({{% relref "../../../product/cloud_clusters_infrastructure_configuration/storage_system_configuration/overview" %}}) and [Networking]({{% relref "../../../product/cloud_clusters_infrastructure_configuration/networking_system_configuration/overview" %}})
- Exploring the [Product]({{% relref "product/index" %}}) guides, such as [Control Plane Configuration]({{% relref "product/control_plane_configuration/index" %}}), [Cloud Cluster Configuration]({{% relref "product/cloud_clusters_infrastructure_configuration/index" %}}) and [Virtual Machines Operation]({{% relref "product/virtual_machines_operation/index" %}})
