content/docs/_index.md, before:

---
title: "OpenNebula Documentation"
description: "An at-a-glance overview of the docs"
weight: "1"
url: "/"
main_menu: true
hide_feedback: true
no_list: true
breadcrumb_disable: true
Description: >
  At-a-glance overview of the OpenNebula Docs
---

[OpenNebula](https://opennebula.io) is a powerful, but easy-to-use open source platform for enterprise, private, hybrid or edge cloud infrastructure. OpenNebula focuses on simplicity, flexibility, scalability and vendor independence.

This site contains the OpenNebula technical documentation, divided into the sections listed below.

{{< cardpane >}}
  {{< card header="[Quick Start](/docs/quick_start)" >}}
  OpenNebula Oveview - Deploy a cloud for evaluation and testing - Automatically deploy a production-ready OpenNebula cloud
  {{< /card >}}
  {{< card header="[Configuration and Operation](/docs/configuration_and_operation)" >}}
  Follow guides and consult references to expand, enhance, secure and monitor your OpenNebula cloud
  {{< /card >}}
  {{< card header="[Apps Marketplace](/docs/apps-marketplace)" >}}
  Explore the appliances available on OpenNebula's public marketplace, and how to access, create and manage private marketplaces
  {{< /card >}}
{{< /cardpane >}}

{{< cardpane >}}
  {{< card header="[Hybrid Cloud](/docs/hybrid_cloud)" >}}
  Automatically provision remote clusters on different providers, for cloud, edge and hybrid infrastructures
  {{< /card >}}
  {{< card header="[Releases](/docs/releases)" >}}
  Automatically provision remote clusters on different providers, for cloud, edge and hybrid infrastructures
  {{< /card >}}
  {{< card header="[Integration and Development](/docs/integration_and_development)" >}}
  Automatically provision remote clusters on different providers, for cloud, edge and hybrid infrastructures
  {{< /card >}}
{{< /cardpane >}}

Commit message:

Modify docs landing page
Signed-off-by: Pedro Ielpi <pielpi@opennebula.io>

content/docs/_index.md, after:

---
title: "OpenNebula Documentation"
description: "An at-a-glance overview of the docs"
weight: "1"
url: "/"
main_menu: true
hide_feedback: true
no_list: true
breadcrumb_disable: true
Description: >

---

[OpenNebula](https://opennebula.io) is a powerful, but easy-to-use open source platform for enterprise, private, hybrid or edge cloud infrastructure. OpenNebula focuses on simplicity, flexibility, scalability and vendor independence.

This site contains the OpenNebula technical documentation. For additional resources, see the [OpenNebula Community Forum](https://forum.opennebula.io/) and [blog](https://opennebula.io/blog/).

To access additional material including white papers, guides and screencasts, see [Official Guides](https://opennebula.io/docs/).

{{< cardpane >}}
  {{< card header="[Quick Start](/docs/quick_start)" >}}
  OpenNebula Oveview - Deploy a cloud for evaluation and testing - Automatically deploy a production-ready OpenNebula cloud
  {{< /card >}}
  {{< card header="[Configuration and Operation](/docs/configuration_and_operation)" >}}
  Follow guides and consult references to expand, enhance, secure and monitor your OpenNebula cloud
  {{< /card >}}
  {{< card header="[Apps Marketplace](/docs/apps-marketplace)" >}}
  Explore the appliances available on OpenNebula's public marketplace, and how to access, create and manage private marketplaces
  {{< /card >}}
{{< /cardpane >}}

{{< cardpane >}}
  {{< card header="[Hybrid Cloud](/docs/hybrid_cloud)" >}}
  Automatically provision remote clusters on different providers, for cloud, edge and hybrid infrastructures
  {{< /card >}}
  {{< card header="[Releases](/docs/releases)" >}}
  Automatically provision remote clusters on different providers, for cloud, edge and hybrid infrastructures
  {{< /card >}}
  {{< card header="[Integration and Development](/docs/integration_and_development)" >}}
  Automatically provision remote clusters on different providers, for cloud, edge and hybrid infrastructures
  {{< /card >}}
{{< /cardpane >}}
