content/product/control_plane_configuration/graphical_user_interface/sunstone_labels.md, before:

---
title: "Sunstone Labels"
date: "2025-02-17"
description:
categories:
pageintoc: "48"
tags:
weight: "4"
---

<a id="sunstone-labels"></a>

<!--# Sunstone Labels -->

Labels can be defined for most of the OpenNebula resources from the admin view.

Each resource **will store the label information in its own template**, thus it can be easily edited from the CLI or Sunstone.

![labels_edit](/images/sunstone_labels_edit.png)

This feature enables the possibility to **group the different resources** under a given label and filter them in the admin and cloud views. The user will be able to easily find the template to instantiate **or select a set of resources** to apply a given action.

![labels_filter](/images/sunstone_labels_filter.png)

## Label creation

To create a label, go to the Settings section of a user and enter the name of the label.

![labels_create](/images/sunstone_labels_create.png)

{{< alert title="Warning" color="warning" >}}
When user apply a label to a resource, they can only apply the labels that they have created. The same happens with the label filter, the user can only filter by the labels that they have created.{{< /alert >}}

Commit message:

M OpenNebula/one#6648: Update docs + add bootstrap script (#154)
### Description

* Updates labels docs
* Adds setup.sh script to automatically bootstrap the environment.
    - `npm run start` can then be used to start the server.
    
### Applies to:
- [ ] one-7.0

---------

Signed-off-by: Victor Hansson <vhansson@opennebula.io>
Signed-off-by: Pedro Ielpi <pielpi@opennebula.io>
Co-authored-by: Pedro Ielpi <pielpi@opennebula.io>

content/product/control_plane_configuration/graphical_user_interface/sunstone_labels.md, after:

---
title: "Sunstone Labels"
date: "2025-02-17"
description:
categories:
pageintoc: "48"
tags:
weight: "4"
---

<a id="sunstone-labels"></a>

<!--# Sunstone Labels -->

Labels can be defined for most of the OpenNebula resources from the Admin view.

Depending on the type of label used, _the label information will be stored under either the_ **user** _or_ **group** _template_.

![labels_edit](/images/sunstone_labels_edit.png)

This feature enables the possibility to _group the different resources_ under a given label and filter them in the Admin and Cloud views. The user will be able to easily find the template to instantiate __or select a set of resources_ to apply a given action.

![labels_filter](/images/sunstone_labels_filter.png)

## Label creation

To create a label, select one or more resources, then press the **New label** button.

![labels_create](/images/sunstone_labels_create.png)

This will open the **Create Label** modal, which can be used to create user and group labels.

![labels_create_modal](/images/sunstone_labels_create_modal.png)

{{< alert title="Warning" color="warning" >}}
Only groupadmins can apply and create group labels. However they will still be visible to all members of the group.{{< /alert >}}
