content/product/cluster_configuration/hosts_and_clusters/pci_passthrough.md, before:

---
title: "PCI Passthrough"
date: "2025-02-17"
description:
categories:
pageintoc: "56"
tags:
weight: "5"
---

<a id="kvm-pci-passthrough"></a>

<!--# PCI Passthrough -->

It is possible to discover PCI devices in the Hosts and directly assign them to Virtual Machines in the KVM hypervisor.

The setup and environment information is taken from [here](https://stewartadam.io/howtos/fedora-20/create-gaming-virtual-machine-using-vfio-pci-passthrough-kvm). You can safely ignore all the VGA-related sections, those for PCI devices that are not graphic cards, or if you don’t want to output video signal from them.

{{< alert title="Warning" color="warning" >}}
The overall setup state was extracted from a preconfigured Fedora 22 machine. **Configuration for your distro may be different.**{{< /alert >}} 

## Requirements

Virtualization Host must

* support [I/O MMU](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IOMMU) (processor features Intel VT-d or AMD-Vi)
* have Linux kernel >= 3.12

(instructions below are made for Intel branded processors but the process should be very similar for AMD)

## Machine Configuration (Hypervisor)

### Kernel Configuration

The kernel must be configured to support I/O MMU and to blacklist any driver that could be accessing the PCIs that we want to use in our VMs. The parameter to enable I/O MMU is:

```default
intel_iommu=on
```

We also need to tell the kernel to load the `vfio-pci` driver and blacklist the drivers for the selected cards. For example, for NVIDIA GPUs we can use these parameters:

```default
rd.driver.pre=vfio-pci rd.driver.blacklist=nouveau
```

### Loading VFIO Driver in initrd

The modules for vfio must be added to initrd. The list of modules are `vfio vfio_iommu_type1 vfio_pci vfio_virqfd`. For example, if your system uses `dracut`, add the file `/etc/dracut.conf.d/local.conf` with this line:

```default
add_drivers+="vfio vfio_iommu_type1 vfio_pci vfio_virqfd"
```

and regenerate `initrd`:

```default
# dracut --force
```

### Driver Blacklisting

The same blacklisting done in the kernel parameters must be done in the system configuration. `/etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf` for NVIDIA GPUs:

```default
blacklist nouveau
blacklist lbm-nouveau
options nouveau modeset=0
alias nouveau off
alias lbm-nouveau off
```

Alongside this configuration the VFIO driver should be loaded by passing the id of the PCI cards we want to attach to VMs. For example, for NVIDIA GRID K2 GPU we pass the id `10de:11bf`. File `/etc/modprobe.d/local.conf`:

```default
options vfio-pci ids=10de:11bf
```

### VFIO Device Binding

I/O MMU separates PCI cards into groups to isolate memory operation between devices and VMs. To add the cards to VFIO and assign a group to them we can use the scripts shared in the [aforementioned web page](http://www.firewing1.com/howtos/fedora-20/create-gaming-virtual-machine-using-vfio-pci-passthrough-kvm).

This script binds a card to VFIO. It goes into `/usr/local/bin/vfio-bind`:

```default
#!/bin/sh
modprobe vfio-pci
for dev in "$@"; do
        vendor=$(cat /sys/bus/pci/devices/$dev/vendor)
        device=$(cat /sys/bus/pci/devices/$dev/device)
        if [ -e /sys/bus/pci/devices/\$dev/driver ]; then
                echo $dev > /sys/bus/pci/devices/$dev/driver/unbind
        fi
        echo $vendor $device > /sys/bus/pci/drivers/vfio-pci/new_id
done
```

The configuration goes into `/etc/sysconfig/vfio-bind`. The cards are specified with PCI addresses. Addresses can be retrieved with the `lspci` command. Make sure to prepend the domain that is usually `0000`. For example:

```default
DEVICES="0000:04:00.0 0000:05:00.0 0000:84:00.0 0000:85:00.0"
```

Here is a systemd script that executes the script. It can be written to `/etc/systemd/system/vfio-bind.service` and enabled:

```default
[Unit]
Description=Binds devices to vfio-pci
After=syslog.target

[Service]
EnvironmentFile=-/etc/sysconfig/vfio-bind
Type=oneshot
RemainAfterExit=yes
ExecStart=-/usr/local/bin/vfio-bind $DEVICES

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

### QEMU Configuration

Now we need to give QEMU access to the VFIO devices for the groups assigned to the PCI cards. We can get a list of PCI cards and its I/O MMU group using this command:

```default
# find /sys/kernel/iommu_groups/ -type l
```

In our example our cards have the groups 45, 46, 58, and 59 so we add this configuration to `/etc/libvirt/qemu.conf`:

```default
cgroup_device_acl = [
    "/dev/null", "/dev/full", "/dev/zero",
    "/dev/random", "/dev/urandom",
    "/dev/ptmx", "/dev/kvm", "/dev/kqemu",
    "/dev/rtc","/dev/hpet", "/dev/vfio/vfio",
    "/dev/vfio/45", "/dev/vfio/46", "/dev/vfio/58",
    "/dev/vfio/59"
]
```

<a id="pci-config"></a>

{{< alert title="Note" color="success" >}}
There may be permissions problems if `/dev/vfio` devices are not owned by `oneadmin:kvm`. In this cases, a udev rule like `SUBSYSTEM=="vfio", GROUP="kvm", OWNER="oneadmin"` will set up the necessary owner:group for them to work{{< /alert >}} 

## Driver Configuration

The only configuration needed is the filter for the monitoring probe that gets the list of PCI cards. By default, the probe doesn’t list any cards from a Host. To narrow the list, the configuration can be changed in `/var/lib/one/remotes/etc/im/kvm-probes.d/pci.conf`. The following configuration attributes are available:

| Parameter        | Description                                                                        |
|------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `:filter`        | *(List)* Filters by PCI `vendor:device:class` patterns (same as for `lspci`)       |
| `:short_address` | *(List)* Filters by short PCI address `bus:device.function`                        |
| `:device_name`   | *(List)* Filters by device names with case-insensitive regular expression patterns |

{{< alert title = "Note" color = "success" >}}
The file `/var/lib/one/remotes/etc/im/kvm-probes.d/pci.conf` must be edited in the Front-end. After this, the command `onehost sync --force` should be executed to update the drivers in the KVM nodes.
{{< /alert >}}

All filters are applied on the final PCI cards list.

Example:

```default
# This option specifies the main filters for PCI card monitoring. The format
# is the same as used by lspci to filter on PCI card by vendor:device(:class)
# identification. Several filters can be added as a list, or separated
# by commas. The NULL filter will retrieve all PCI cards.
#
# From lspci help:
#     -d [<vendor>]:[<device>][:<class>]
#            Show only devices with specified vendor, device and  class  ID.
#            The  ID's  are given in hexadecimal and may be omitted or given
#            as "*", both meaning "any value"#
#
# For example:
#   :filter:
#     - '10de:*'      # all NVIDIA VGA cards
#     - '10de:11bf'   # only GK104GL [GRID K2]
#     - '*:10d3'      # only 82574L Gigabit Network cards
#     - '8086::0c03'  # only Intel USB controllers
#
# or
#
#   :filter: '*:*'    # all devices
#
# or
#
#   :filter: '0:0'    # no devices
#
:filter: '*:*'

# The PCI cards list restricted by the :filter option above can be even more
# filtered by the list of exact PCI addresses (bus:device.func).
#
# For example:
#   :short_address:
#     - '07:00.0'
#     - '06:00.0'
#
:short_address:
  - '00:1f.3'

# The PCI cards list restricted by the :filter option above can be even more
# filtered by matching the device name against the list of regular expression
# case-insensitive patterns.
#
# For example:
#   :device_name:
#     - 'Virtual Function'
#     - 'Gigabit Network'
#     - 'USB.*Host Controller'
#     - '^MegaRAID'
#
:device_name:
  - 'Ethernet'
  - 'Audio Controller'
```

<a id="pci-usage"></a>

## Usage

The basic workflow is to inspect the Host information, either in the CLI or in Sunstone, to find out the available PCI devices and to add the desired device to the template. PCI devices can be added by specifying `VENDOR`, `DEVICE` and `CLASS`, or simply `CLASS`. Alternatively, you can select and specific device by its address with (`SHORT_ADDRESS`).

Note that OpenNebula will only deploy the VM in a Host with the available PCI device. If no Hosts match, an error message will appear in the Scheduler log.

### CLI

A new table in `onehost show` command gives us the list of PCI devices per Host. For example:

```default
PCI DEVICES

   VM ADDR    TYPE           NAME
      00:00.0 8086:0a04:0600 Haswell-ULT DRAM Controller
      00:02.0 8086:0a16:0300 Haswell-ULT Integrated Graphics Controller
  123 00:03.0 8086:0a0c:0403 Haswell-ULT HD Audio Controller
      00:14.0 8086:9c31:0c03 8 Series USB xHCI HC
      00:16.0 8086:9c3a:0780 8 Series HECI #0
      00:1b.0 8086:9c20:0403 8 Series HD Audio Controller
      00:1c.0 8086:9c10:0604 8 Series PCI Express Root Port 1
      00:1c.2 8086:9c14:0604 8 Series PCI Express Root Port 3
      00:1d.0 8086:9c26:0c03 8 Series USB EHCI #1
      00:1f.0 8086:9c43:0601 8 Series LPC Controller
      00:1f.2 8086:9c03:0106 8 Series SATA Controller 1 [AHCI mode]
      00:1f.3 8086:9c22:0c05 8 Series SMBus Controller
      02:00.0 8086:08b1:0280 Wireless 7260
```

- `VM` - The VM ID using that specific device. Empty if no VMs are using that device.
- `ADDR` - PCI Address.
- `TYPE` - Values describing the device. These are VENDOR:DEVICE:CLASS. These values are used when selecting a PCI device do to passthrough.
- `NAME` - Name of the PCI device.

To make use of one of the PCI devices in a VM a new option can be added to select which device to use. For example, this will ask for a `Haswell-ULT HD Audio Controller`:

```default
PCI = [
  VENDOR = "8086",
  DEVICE = "0a0c",
  CLASS  = "0403" ]
```

The device can also be specified without all the type values. For example, to get any *PCI Express Root Ports* this can be added to a VM template:

```default
PCI = [
  CLASS = "0604" ]
```

More than one `PCI` options can be added to attach more than one PCI device to the VM.

In some scenarios it may be useful to select a specific device. In this case simply input the address of the device you are interested in:

```default
PCI = [
  SHORT_ADDRESS = "00:03.0"
]
```

### Sunstone

In Sunstone the information is displayed in the **PCI** tab of a Host:

![pciHostTab](/images/sunstone_host_pci.png)

To add a PCI device to a template, select the **PCI Devices** tab when you are creating a Virtual Machine template:

![pciTemplateTab](/images/sunstone_template_pci.png)

## Usage as Network Interfaces

It is possible use a PCI device as an NIC interface directly in OpenNebula. In order to do so you will need to follow the configuration steps mentioned in this guide, namely changing the device driver.

For SR-IOV interfaces you can configure some parameters, in particular the following attributes can be defined for a SR-IOV interface:

> - `MAC`
> - `VLAN_ID`
> - `SPOOFCHK`
> - `TRUST`

The [context packages]({{% relref "../../virtual_machines_operation/virtual_machine_definitions/vm_templates#context-overview" %}}) support the configuration of the following attributes:

* `MAC`: It will change the mac address of the corresponding network interface to the MAC assigned by OpenNebula.
* `IP`: It will assign an IPv4 address to the interface, assuming a `/24` netmask.
* `IPV6`: It will assign an IPv6 address to the interface, assuming a `/128` netmask.
* `VLAN_ID`: If present, it will create a tagged interface and assign the IPs to the tagged interface.

### CLI

When a `PCI` in a template contains the attribute `TYPE="NIC"`, it will be treated as a `NIC` and OpenNebula will assign a MAC address, a VLAN_ID, an IP, etc., to the PCI device.

This is an example of the PCI section of an interface that will be treated as an NIC:

```default
PCI = [
  NETWORK = "passthrough",
  NETWORK_UNAME = "oneadmin",
  TYPE = "NIC",
  CLASS = "0200",
  DEVICE = "10d3",
  VENDOR = "8086",
  TRUST  = "yes"
]
```

Note that the order of appearance of the `PCI` elements and `NIC` elements in the template is relevant. They will be mapped to NICs in the order they appear, regardless of whether or not they’re NICs of PCIs.

### Sunstone

In the Network tab, under advanced options, the hardware profile of the interface can be of three types:

- “Emulated”, it includes the hardware model emulated by Qemu.
- “PCI - Automatic”, OpenNebula hardware scheduler will pick the best PCI device for the NIC.
- “PCI - Manual”, user can specify the PCI device by its short-address as shown in Host information.

Use the rest of the dialog as usual by selecting a network from the table.

![pciNic](/images/sunstone_nic_passthrough.png)

Commit message:

F OpenNebula/one#7261: Include per-host PCI device filtering (#305)
Signed-off-by: Daniel <dgarcia@opennebula.io>
Co-authored-by: Priscill Orue <porue@opennebula.io>

content/product/cluster_configuration/hosts_and_clusters/pci_passthrough.md, after:

---
title: "PCI Passthrough"
date: "2025-02-17"
description:
categories:
pageintoc: "56"
tags:
weight: "5"
---

<a id="kvm-pci-passthrough"></a>

<!--# PCI Passthrough -->

It is possible to discover PCI devices in the Hosts and directly assign them to Virtual Machines in the KVM hypervisor.

The setup and environment information is taken from [here](https://stewartadam.io/howtos/fedora-20/create-gaming-virtual-machine-using-vfio-pci-passthrough-kvm). You can safely ignore all the VGA-related sections, those for PCI devices that are not graphic cards, or if you don’t want to output video signal from them.

{{< alert title="Warning" color="warning" >}}
The overall setup state was extracted from a preconfigured Fedora 22 machine. **Configuration for your distro may be different.**{{< /alert >}} 

## Requirements

Virtualization Host must

* support [I/O MMU](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IOMMU) (processor features Intel VT-d or AMD-Vi)
* have Linux kernel >= 3.12

(instructions below are made for Intel branded processors but the process should be very similar for AMD)

## Machine Configuration (Hypervisor)

### Kernel Configuration

The kernel must be configured to support I/O MMU and to blacklist any driver that could be accessing the PCIs that we want to use in our VMs. The parameter to enable I/O MMU is:

```default
intel_iommu=on
```

We also need to tell the kernel to load the `vfio-pci` driver and blacklist the drivers for the selected cards. For example, for NVIDIA GPUs we can use these parameters:

```default
rd.driver.pre=vfio-pci rd.driver.blacklist=nouveau
```

### Loading VFIO Driver in initrd

The modules for vfio must be added to initrd. The list of modules are `vfio vfio_iommu_type1 vfio_pci vfio_virqfd`. For example, if your system uses `dracut`, add the file `/etc/dracut.conf.d/local.conf` with this line:

```default
add_drivers+="vfio vfio_iommu_type1 vfio_pci vfio_virqfd"
```

and regenerate `initrd`:

```default
# dracut --force
```

### Driver Blacklisting

The same blacklisting done in the kernel parameters must be done in the system configuration. `/etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf` for NVIDIA GPUs:

```default
blacklist nouveau
blacklist lbm-nouveau
options nouveau modeset=0
alias nouveau off
alias lbm-nouveau off
```

Alongside this configuration the VFIO driver should be loaded by passing the id of the PCI cards we want to attach to VMs. For example, for NVIDIA GRID K2 GPU we pass the id `10de:11bf`. File `/etc/modprobe.d/local.conf`:

```default
options vfio-pci ids=10de:11bf
```

### VFIO Device Binding

I/O MMU separates PCI cards into groups to isolate memory operation between devices and VMs. To add the cards to VFIO and assign a group to them we can use the scripts shared in the [aforementioned web page](http://www.firewing1.com/howtos/fedora-20/create-gaming-virtual-machine-using-vfio-pci-passthrough-kvm).

This script binds a card to VFIO. It goes into `/usr/local/bin/vfio-bind`:

```default
#!/bin/sh
modprobe vfio-pci
for dev in "$@"; do
        vendor=$(cat /sys/bus/pci/devices/$dev/vendor)
        device=$(cat /sys/bus/pci/devices/$dev/device)
        if [ -e /sys/bus/pci/devices/\$dev/driver ]; then
                echo $dev > /sys/bus/pci/devices/$dev/driver/unbind
        fi
        echo $vendor $device > /sys/bus/pci/drivers/vfio-pci/new_id
done
```

The configuration goes into `/etc/sysconfig/vfio-bind`. The cards are specified with PCI addresses. Addresses can be retrieved with the `lspci` command. Make sure to prepend the domain that is usually `0000`. For example:

```default
DEVICES="0000:04:00.0 0000:05:00.0 0000:84:00.0 0000:85:00.0"
```

Here is a systemd script that executes the script. It can be written to `/etc/systemd/system/vfio-bind.service` and enabled:

```default
[Unit]
Description=Binds devices to vfio-pci
After=syslog.target

[Service]
EnvironmentFile=-/etc/sysconfig/vfio-bind
Type=oneshot
RemainAfterExit=yes
ExecStart=-/usr/local/bin/vfio-bind $DEVICES

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

### QEMU Configuration

Now we need to give QEMU access to the VFIO devices for the groups assigned to the PCI cards. We can get a list of PCI cards and its I/O MMU group using this command:

```default
# find /sys/kernel/iommu_groups/ -type l
```

In our example our cards have the groups 45, 46, 58, and 59 so we add this configuration to `/etc/libvirt/qemu.conf`:

```default
cgroup_device_acl = [
    "/dev/null", "/dev/full", "/dev/zero",
    "/dev/random", "/dev/urandom",
    "/dev/ptmx", "/dev/kvm", "/dev/kqemu",
    "/dev/rtc","/dev/hpet", "/dev/vfio/vfio",
    "/dev/vfio/45", "/dev/vfio/46", "/dev/vfio/58",
    "/dev/vfio/59"
]
```

<a id="pci-config"></a>

{{< alert title="Note" color="success" >}}
There may be permissions problems if `/dev/vfio` devices are not owned by `oneadmin:kvm`. In this cases, a udev rule like `SUBSYSTEM=="vfio", GROUP="kvm", OWNER="oneadmin"` will set up the necessary owner:group for them to work{{< /alert >}} 

## Driver Configuration

The only configuration needed is the filter for the monitoring probe that gets the list of PCI cards. By default, the probe doesn’t list any cards from a Host. To narrow the list, the configuration can be changed in `/var/lib/one/remotes/etc/im/kvm-probes.d/pci.conf`. The following configuration attributes are available:

| Parameter        | Description                                                                        |
|------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `:filter`        | *(List)* Filters by PCI `vendor:device:class` patterns (same as for `lspci`)       |
| `:short_address` | *(List)* Filters by short PCI address `bus:device.function`                        |
| `:device_name`   | *(List)* Filters by device names with case-insensitive regular expression patterns |

{{< alert title = "Note" color = "success" >}}
The file `/var/lib/one/remotes/etc/im/kvm-probes.d/pci.conf` must be edited in the Front-end. After this, the command `onehost sync --force` should be executed to update the drivers in the KVM nodes.
{{< /alert >}}

All filters are applied on the final PCI cards list.

Example:

```default
# This option specifies the main filters for PCI card monitoring. The format
# is the same as used by lspci to filter on PCI card by vendor:device(:class)
# identification. Several filters can be added as a list, or separated
# by commas. The NULL filter will retrieve all PCI cards.
#
# From lspci help:
#     -d [<vendor>]:[<device>][:<class>]
#            Show only devices with specified vendor, device and  class  ID.
#            The  ID's  are given in hexadecimal and may be omitted or given
#            as "*", both meaning "any value"#
#
# For example:
#   :filter:
#     - '10de:*'      # all NVIDIA VGA cards
#     - '10de:11bf'   # only GK104GL [GRID K2]
#     - '*:10d3'      # only 82574L Gigabit Network cards
#     - '8086::0c03'  # only Intel USB controllers
#
# or
#
#   :filter: '*:*'    # all devices
#
# or
#
#   :filter: '0:0'    # no devices
#
:filter: '*:*'

# The PCI cards list restricted by the :filter option above can be even more
# filtered by the list of exact PCI addresses (bus:device.func).
#
# For example:
#   :short_address:
#     - '07:00.0'
#     - '06:00.0'
#
:short_address:
  - '00:1f.3'

# The PCI cards list restricted by the :filter option above can be even more
# filtered by matching the device name against the list of regular expression
# case-insensitive patterns.
#
# For example:
#   :device_name:
#     - 'Virtual Function'
#     - 'Gigabit Network'
#     - 'USB.*Host Controller'
#     - '^MegaRAID'
#
:device_name:
  - 'Ethernet'
  - 'Audio Controller'
```

<a id="pci-usage"></a>

### Per-Host Device Filtering

The driver configuration file ( `/var/lib/one/remotes/etc/im/kvm-probes.d/pci.conf` ) contains the definition of PCI device filtering rules which are applied globally across all hosts. Additionally, if the cloud administrator intends to apply filtering rules to specific hosts, these attributes can be configured on a per-host or per-cluster basis within the corresponding host template:

| Parameter        | Description                                                                        |
|------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `PCI_FILTER`        | *(List)* Filters by PCI `vendor:device:class` patterns (same as for `lspci`)       |
| `PCI_SHORT_ADDRESS` | *(List)* Filters by short PCI address `bus:device.function`                        |

Example: The command below filters by PCI with the `10de:*` pattern and addresses using the `e1` bus`
```default
$ onehost show 0 | grep PCI
PCI_FILTER="10de:*"
PCI_SHORT_ADDRESS="e1:00.0"
```

## Usage

The basic workflow is to inspect the Host information, either in the CLI or in Sunstone, to find out the available PCI devices and to add the desired device to the template. PCI devices can be added by specifying `VENDOR`, `DEVICE` and `CLASS`, or simply `CLASS`. Alternatively, you can select and specific device by its address with (`SHORT_ADDRESS`).

Note that OpenNebula will only deploy the VM in a Host with the available PCI device. If no Hosts match, an error message will appear in the Scheduler log.

### CLI

A new table in `onehost show` command gives us the list of PCI devices per Host. For example:

```default
PCI DEVICES

   VM ADDR    TYPE           NAME
      00:00.0 8086:0a04:0600 Haswell-ULT DRAM Controller
      00:02.0 8086:0a16:0300 Haswell-ULT Integrated Graphics Controller
  123 00:03.0 8086:0a0c:0403 Haswell-ULT HD Audio Controller
      00:14.0 8086:9c31:0c03 8 Series USB xHCI HC
      00:16.0 8086:9c3a:0780 8 Series HECI #0
      00:1b.0 8086:9c20:0403 8 Series HD Audio Controller
      00:1c.0 8086:9c10:0604 8 Series PCI Express Root Port 1
      00:1c.2 8086:9c14:0604 8 Series PCI Express Root Port 3
      00:1d.0 8086:9c26:0c03 8 Series USB EHCI #1
      00:1f.0 8086:9c43:0601 8 Series LPC Controller
      00:1f.2 8086:9c03:0106 8 Series SATA Controller 1 [AHCI mode]
      00:1f.3 8086:9c22:0c05 8 Series SMBus Controller
      02:00.0 8086:08b1:0280 Wireless 7260
```

- `VM` - The VM ID using that specific device. Empty if no VMs are using that device.
- `ADDR` - PCI Address.
- `TYPE` - Values describing the device. These are VENDOR:DEVICE:CLASS. These values are used when selecting a PCI device do to passthrough.
- `NAME` - Name of the PCI device.

To make use of one of the PCI devices in a VM a new option can be added to select which device to use. For example, this will ask for a `Haswell-ULT HD Audio Controller`:

```default
PCI = [
  VENDOR = "8086",
  DEVICE = "0a0c",
  CLASS  = "0403" ]
```

The device can also be specified without all the type values. For example, to get any *PCI Express Root Ports* this can be added to a VM template:

```default
PCI = [
  CLASS = "0604" ]
```

More than one `PCI` options can be added to attach more than one PCI device to the VM.

In some scenarios it may be useful to select a specific device. In this case simply input the address of the device you are interested in:

```default
PCI = [
  SHORT_ADDRESS = "00:03.0"
]
```

### Sunstone

In Sunstone the information is displayed in the **PCI** tab of a Host:

![pciHostTab](/images/sunstone_host_pci.png)

To add a PCI device to a template, select the **PCI Devices** tab when you are creating a Virtual Machine template:

![pciTemplateTab](/images/sunstone_template_pci.png)

## Usage as Network Interfaces

It is possible use a PCI device as an NIC interface directly in OpenNebula. In order to do so you will need to follow the configuration steps mentioned in this guide, namely changing the device driver.

For SR-IOV interfaces you can configure some parameters, in particular the following attributes can be defined for a SR-IOV interface:

> - `MAC`
> - `VLAN_ID`
> - `SPOOFCHK`
> - `TRUST`

The [context packages]({{% relref "../../virtual_machines_operation/virtual_machine_definitions/vm_templates#context-overview" %}}) support the configuration of the following attributes:

* `MAC`: It will change the mac address of the corresponding network interface to the MAC assigned by OpenNebula.
* `IP`: It will assign an IPv4 address to the interface, assuming a `/24` netmask.
* `IPV6`: It will assign an IPv6 address to the interface, assuming a `/128` netmask.
* `VLAN_ID`: If present, it will create a tagged interface and assign the IPs to the tagged interface.

### CLI

When a `PCI` in a template contains the attribute `TYPE="NIC"`, it will be treated as a `NIC` and OpenNebula will assign a MAC address, a VLAN_ID, an IP, etc., to the PCI device.

This is an example of the PCI section of an interface that will be treated as an NIC:

```default
PCI = [
  NETWORK = "passthrough",
  NETWORK_UNAME = "oneadmin",
  TYPE = "NIC",
  CLASS = "0200",
  DEVICE = "10d3",
  VENDOR = "8086",
  TRUST  = "yes"
]
```

Note that the order of appearance of the `PCI` elements and `NIC` elements in the template is relevant. They will be mapped to NICs in the order they appear, regardless of whether or not they’re NICs of PCIs.

### Sunstone

In the Network tab, under advanced options, the hardware profile of the interface can be of three types:

- “Emulated”, it includes the hardware model emulated by Qemu.
- “PCI - Automatic”, OpenNebula hardware scheduler will pick the best PCI device for the NIC.
- “PCI - Manual”, user can specify the PCI device by its short-address as shown in Host information.

Use the rest of the dialog as usual by selecting a network from the table.

![pciNic](/images/sunstone_nic_passthrough.png)
