content/software/migration_from_vmware/import_ova.md, before:

---
title: "Managing OVAs and VMDKs"
description:
categories:
pageintoc: ""
tags:
weight: "2"
---

<a id="ova-management-overview"></a>

## Overview

OpenNebula supports importing OVAs that have been exported from vCenter / ESXi environments, generating the necessary VM Template and Images.

It is possible to import **.ova** files or a folder containing the OVF files (VMDK disk files and manifest file in **.ovf** format). The import tool will inject [context packages]({{% relref "kvm_contextualization#kvm-contextualization" %}}) in the target Images, automatically detecting the guest operating system.

The same command allows users to import single VMDK disks as OpenNebula Images, converting the VMDK to qcow2 format and then creating the associated Image. It is possible to inject context, install [virtio drivers](#windows-virtio-drivers) and uninstall VMware Tools.

<a id="import-ova"></a>

<!--# OVA/VMDK Import -->

## Install

OneSwap is developed and maintained by OpenNebula on a [dedicated github repository](https://github.com/OpenNebula/one-swap). Starting from OpenNebula 7.0, OneSwap is being shipped as a package called `opennebula-swap` in the [OpenNebula Repositories]({{% relref "../installation_process/manual_installation/opennebula_repository_configuration#repositories" %}}) for Ubuntu 24.04, AlmaLinux 9 and Debian 12. Install the `opennebula-swap` package with your package manager.

### Configure

You can configure the tool by editing the file `/etc/one/oneswap.yaml`. In here you can configure items like vCenter credentials, so you don't have to pass them on the CLI. For example:

```yaml
# vCenter Authentication
#:vcenter: '172.20.0.123'                 # vCenter hostname or IP
#:vuser: 'administrator@vsphere.local'    # vCenter username
#:vpass: 'changeme123'                    # vCenter password
#:port: 443                               # vCenter port
```


### Windows VirtIO Drivers

Before converting Windows VMs, download the required VirtIO drivers for the Windows VM distribution. These drivers can be downloaded from the [virtio-win repository](https://github.com/virtio-win/virtio-win-pkg-scripts/blob/master/README.md).

{{< alert title="Note" color="success" >}}
The converted VM will reboot several times after instantiation in order to install and configure the VirtIO drivers.{{< /alert >}}

## Usage

The full documentation for OneSwap is maintained in the [OneSwap Wiki](https://github.com/OpenNebula/one-swap/wiki).

OneSwap will assume that the provided OVA has been exported from a VMware environment. Users must make sure that the provided OVA is compatible with VMware environments. Other sources are currently not supported (i.e., Xen or VirtualBox).

When converting an OVA or VMDK you will need enough space both in the `/tmp` folder (can be changed with `--work-dir`) and in the destination DS where the disk images are going to be imported.

The parent OVA directory name should match the name of the OVA files inside it. For example

```
ovf_test/
├── ovf_test-1.vmdk
├── ovf_test-2.nvram
├── ovf_test.mf
└── ovf_test.ovf
```


It is possible to specify the target Datastore and VNET for the OVA to be imported. Refer to `man oneswap` for the complete documentation of the oneswap command. Available options for the `oneswap import` command are:

| Parameter                              | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--ova file.ova \| /path/to/ovf/files/` | Path to the OVA file or folder containing the OVF files.                                                                                                                                                        |
| `--vmdk file.ova \| /path/to/disk.vmdk` | Path to the VMDK disk file.
| `--datastore name \| ID`                | Name/ID of the Datastore to store the new Image. Accepts one or more Datastores (i.e. `--datastore 101,102`). When more than one Datastore is provided, each disk will be allocated in a different one. |
| `--network name \| ID`                  | Name/ID of the VNET to assign in the VM Template. Accepts one or more VNETs (i.e. `--network 0,1`). When more than one VNET is provided, each interface from the OVA will be assigned to each VNET. **Not supported for VMDK**.     |
| `--virtio /path/to/virtio.iso`         | Path to the ISO file with the VirtIO drivers for the Windows version.                                                                                                                                           |
| `--skip-context`                       | Skip injection of the context package.                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `--remove_vmtools`                     | Add contextualization script to force remove VMware tools from the VM.                                                                                                                                                                      |

{{< alert title="Note" color="success" >}}
The options `--ova` and `--vmdk` are mutually exclusive, they cannot be used together.{{< /alert >}}

If multiple network interfaces are detected when importing an OVA and only one VNET ID or not enough VNET IDs are provided for all interfaces using `--network ID`, the last one will be used for the rest of the interfaces after the last coincidence. The same will apply to Datastores using the `--datastore ID` option.

### Example of Importing an OVA

Example command on how to import an OVA using the Datastore ID 101 and VNET ID 1:

```default
$ oneswap import --ova /ovas/vm-alma9/ --datastore 101 --network 1
Running: virt-v2v -v --machine-readable -i ova /ovas/vm-alma9/ -o local -os /tmp/vm-alma9/conversions/ -of qcow2 --root=first

Setting up the source: -i ova /home/onepoc/ovas/vm-alma9/

(...)

$ onetemplate list
ID USER     GROUP    NAME               REGTIME
63 onepoc   oneadmin vm-alma9    03/24 16:34:34

$ onetemplate instantiate 63
VM ID: 103
```

### Example of Importing an OVA with Multiple DSs and VNETs

The source OVA has two disks and two NICs, as can be seen from the `.ovf` file:

```default
<DiskSection>
    <Info>List of the virtual disks</Info>
    <Disk ovf:capacityAllocationUnits="byte" ovf:format="http://www.vmware.com/interfaces/specifications/vmdk.html#streamOptimized" ovf:diskId="vmdisk1" ovf:capacity="8589934592" ovf:fileRef="file1"/>
    <Disk ovf:capacityAllocationUnits="byte" ovf:format="http://www.vmware.com/interfaces/specifications/vmdk.html#streamOptimized" ovf:diskId="vmdisk2" ovf:capacity="2147483648" ovf:fileRef="file2"/>
</DiskSection>
<NetworkSection>
    <Info>The list of logical networks</Info>
    <Network ovf:name="VM Network 0">
    <Description>The VM Network 0 network</Description>
    </Network>
    <Network ovf:name="VM Network 1">
    <Description>The VM Network 1 network</Description>
    </Network>
</NetworkSection>
```

Example command on how to import an OVA with two disks and two network interfaces, importing each disk to a different Datastore and assigning each NIC to a different VNET:

```default
$ oneswap import --ova /home/onepoc/ovas/ubuntu2404.ova --datastore 1,101 --network 1,0
Running: virt-v2v -v --machine-readable -i ova /home/onepoc/ovas/ubuntu2404.ova -o local -os /tmp/ubuntu2404/conversions/ -of qcow2 --root=first

Setting up the source: -i ova /home/onepoc/ovas/ubuntu2404.ova

(...)

$ onetemplate list
ID  USER     GROUP    NAME                  REGTIME
101 onepoc   oneadmin ubuntu2404    04/10 12:55:03
```

The OS Image is imported in Datastore 1 and the Datablock Image is imported in Datastore 101, and the VM Template has one NIC using VNET 1 and a second NIC using VNET 0.

```default
$ oneimage list
ID  USER     GROUP    NAME            DATASTORE     SIZE TYPE PER STAT RVMS
151 onepoc   oneadmin ubuntu2404_1    NFS image       2G DB    No rdy     0
150 onepoc   oneadmin ubuntu2404_0    default         8G OS    No rdy     0

$ onetemplate show 101 | grep NIC -A 1
NIC=[
    NETWORK_ID="1" ]
NIC=[
    NETWORK_ID="0" ]
```

### Example of Importing VMDK Uninstalling VMware Tools

Example command on how to import a VMDK disk using the Datastore ID 101:

```default
[onepoc@nebulito ~]$ oneswap import --vmdk /home/onepoc/ovas/vm-debian125/vm-debian125-1.vmdk --datastore 101 --remove_vmtools
Converting the Image => Converting disk /home/onepoc/ovas/vm-debian125/vm-debian125-1.vmdk to qcow2...
    (100.00/100%)
Disk converted successfully in 58.15 seconds.
Converted image: /tmp/vm-debian125-1/conversions/vm-debian125-1.qcow2

(...)

Allocating image 0 in OpenNebula
Waiting for image to be ready. Timeout: 120 seconds.
Created image: 174
Deleting password files.
No such file or directory @ apply2files - /tmp/vm-debian125-1/vpassfile

[onepoc@nebulito ~]$ oneimage list
ID  USER     GROUP    NAME                DATASTORE     SIZE TYPE PER STAT RVMS
174 onepoc   oneadmin vm-debian125-1_0    NFS image       5G OS    No rdy     0
```

## Context Injection

OneSwap will detect the guest operating system and try to inject the context packages available from the [one-apps](https://github.com/opennebula/one-apps) repository.

Context injection will be performed following these steps:

1. Install context using package manager for the distro. However, this step may fail and trigger the execution of the fallback context installation command:

```default
Inspecting disk...Done (3.92s)
Injecting one-context...Running: virt-customize -q -a /tmp/vm-alma9/conversions/vm-alma9-sda --run-command 'subscription-manager repos --enable codeready-builder-for-rhel-9-$(arch)-rpms' --run-command 'yum -y install https://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/epel-release-latest-9.noarch.rpm' --copy-in /var/lib/one/context//one-context-6.10.0-3.el9.noarch.rpm:/tmp --install /tmp/one-context-6.10.0-3.el9.noarch.rpm --delete /tmp/one-context-6.10.0-3.el9.noarch.rpm --run-command 'systemctl enable NetworkManager.service || exit 0'
Failed (6.31s)
```

2. Context will be installed using a fallback method of copying the context packages into the guest OS and installing it on the first boot in case the previous step fails. Sometimes it will be necessary to boot twice in order for this method to work.

```default
Running: virt-customize -q -a /tmp/vm-alma9/conversions/vm-alma9-sda --firstboot-install epel-release --copy-in /var/lib/one/context//one-context-6.10.0-3.el9.noarch.rpm:/tmp --firstboot-install /tmp/one-context-6.10.0-3.el9.noarch.rpm --run-command 'systemctl enable network.service || exit 0'
Success (42.24s)
Context will install on first boot, you may need to boot it twice.
```

{{< alert title="Note" color="success" >}}
If context injection does not work after importing, it is also possible to install one-context **before exporting the OVA** from VMware using the packages available in the one-apps repository and uninstalling VMware Tools. In this case it is important to be aware that the one-context service will get rid of any manual network configurations done to the guest OS and the VM won’t be able to get the network configuration from VMware anymore.{{< /alert >}}

## Additional `virt-v2v` Options

The following parameters can be tuned for virt-v2v, defaults will be applied if no options are provided.

| Parameter                             | Description                                                                                                                                                                   |
|---------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--v2v-path /path/to/ovf/files/`      | Path to the OVA file or folder containing the OVF files. Default: `virt-v2v`.                                                                                                |
| `--work-dir \| -w /path/to/work/dir` | Directory where disk conversion takes place, will make subdir for each VM. Default: `/tmp`.                                                                                  |
| `--format \| -f name [ qcow2 \| raw ]` | Disk format `[ qcow2 \| raw ]`. Default: `qcow2`.                                                                                                                               |
| `--virtio /path/to/iso`             | Full path of the win-virtio ISO file. Required to inject VirtIO drivers to Windows Guests.                                                                                |
| `--win-qemu-ga /path/to/iso`        | Install QEMU Guest Agent to a Windows guest.                                                                                                                                  |
| `--qemu-ga`                           | Install qemu-guest-agent package to a Linux guest, useful with `–custom` or `–fallback`.                                                                                      |
| `--delete-after`                      | Removes the leftover conversion directory in the working directory which contains the converted VM disks and descriptor files.                                            |
| `--vddk /path/to/vddk/`               | Full path to the VDDK library, required for VDDK-based transfer.                                                                                                              |
| `--virt-tools /path/to/virt-tools`    | Path to the directory containing `rhsrvany.exe`, defaults to `/usr/local/share/virt-tools`. See [https://github.com/rwmjones/rhsrvany](https://github.com/rwmjones/rhsrvany). |
| `--root option`                       | Choose the root filesystem to be converted. Can be `ask`, `single`, `first` or `/dev/sdX`.                                                                                        |

Commit message:

M #-: Add UEFI options to OVA import
Signed-off-by: Alejandro Mosteiro <amosteiro@opennebula.io>

content/software/migration_from_vmware/import_ova.md, after:

---
title: "Managing OVAs and VMDKs"
description:
categories:
pageintoc: ""
tags:
weight: "2"
---

<a id="ova-management-overview"></a>

## Overview

OpenNebula supports importing OVAs that have been exported from vCenter / ESXi environments, generating the necessary VM Template and Images.

It is possible to import **.ova** files or a folder containing the OVF files (VMDK disk files and manifest file in **.ovf** format). The import tool will inject [context packages]({{% relref "kvm_contextualization#kvm-contextualization" %}}) in the target Images, automatically detecting the guest operating system.

The same command allows users to import single VMDK disks as OpenNebula Images, converting the VMDK to qcow2 format and then creating the associated Image. It is possible to inject context, install [virtio drivers](#windows-virtio-drivers) and uninstall VMware Tools.

<a id="import-ova"></a>

<!--# OVA/VMDK Import -->

## Install

OneSwap is developed and maintained by OpenNebula on a [dedicated github repository](https://github.com/OpenNebula/one-swap). Starting from OpenNebula 7.0, OneSwap is being shipped as a package called `opennebula-swap` in the [OpenNebula Repositories]({{% relref "../installation_process/manual_installation/opennebula_repository_configuration#repositories" %}}) for Ubuntu 24.04, AlmaLinux 9 and Debian 12. Install the `opennebula-swap` package with your package manager.

### Configure

You can configure the tool by editing the file `/etc/one/oneswap.yaml`. In here you can configure items like vCenter credentials, so you don't have to pass them on the CLI. For example:

```yaml
# vCenter Authentication
#:vcenter: '172.20.0.123'                 # vCenter hostname or IP
#:vuser: 'administrator@vsphere.local'    # vCenter username
#:vpass: 'changeme123'                    # vCenter password
#:port: 443                               # vCenter port
```


### Windows VirtIO Drivers

Before converting Windows VMs, download the required VirtIO drivers for the Windows VM distribution. These drivers can be downloaded from the [virtio-win repository](https://github.com/virtio-win/virtio-win-pkg-scripts/blob/master/README.md).

{{< alert title="Note" color="success" >}}
The converted VM will reboot several times after instantiation in order to install and configure the VirtIO drivers.{{< /alert >}}

## Usage

The full documentation for OneSwap is maintained in the [OneSwap Wiki](https://github.com/OpenNebula/one-swap/wiki).

OneSwap will assume that the provided OVA has been exported from a VMware environment. Users must make sure that the provided OVA is compatible with VMware environments. Other sources are currently not supported (i.e., Xen or VirtualBox).

When converting an OVA or VMDK you will need enough space both in the `/tmp` folder (can be changed with `--work-dir`) and in the destination DS where the disk images are going to be imported.

The parent OVA directory name should match the name of the OVA files inside it. For example

```
ovf_test/
├── ovf_test-1.vmdk
├── ovf_test-2.nvram
├── ovf_test.mf
└── ovf_test.ovf
```


It is possible to specify the target Datastore and VNET for the OVA to be imported. Refer to `man oneswap` for the complete documentation of the oneswap command. Available options for the `oneswap import` command are:

| Parameter                              | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--ova file.ova \| /path/to/ovf/files/` | Path to the OVA file or folder containing the OVF files.                                                                                                                                                        |
| `--vmdk file.ova \| /path/to/disk.vmdk` | Path to the VMDK disk file.
| `--datastore name \| ID`                | Name/ID of the Datastore to store the new Image. Accepts one or more Datastores (i.e. `--datastore 101,102`). When more than one Datastore is provided, each disk will be allocated in a different one. |
| `--network name \| ID`                  | Name/ID of the VNET to assign in the VM Template. Accepts one or more VNETs (i.e. `--network 0,1`). When more than one VNET is provided, each interface from the OVA will be assigned to each VNET. **Not supported for VMDK**.     |
| `--virtio /path/to/virtio.iso`         | Path to the ISO file with the VirtIO drivers for the Windows version.                                                                                                                                           |
| `--skip-context`                       | Skip injection of the context package.                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `--remove_vmtools`                     | Add contextualization script to force remove VMware tools from the VM.                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `--uefi-path /path/to/uefi`            | Path to the UEFI file to be configured in the VM template. It will be automatically selected if not set. |
| `--uefi-sec-path /path/to/uefi.secboot` | Path to the UEFI Secure file to be configured in the VM template. It will be automatically selected if not set. |

{{< alert title="Note" color="success" >}}
The options `--ova` and `--vmdk` are mutually exclusive, they cannot be used together.{{< /alert >}}

If multiple network interfaces are detected when importing an OVA and only one VNET ID or not enough VNET IDs are provided for all interfaces using `--network ID`, the last one will be used for the rest of the interfaces after the last coincidence. The same will apply to Datastores using the `--datastore ID` option.

### Example of Importing an OVA

Example command on how to import an OVA using the Datastore ID 101 and VNET ID 1:

```default
$ oneswap import --ova /ovas/vm-alma9/ --datastore 101 --network 1
Running: virt-v2v -v --machine-readable -i ova /ovas/vm-alma9/ -o local -os /tmp/vm-alma9/conversions/ -of qcow2 --root=first

Setting up the source: -i ova /home/onepoc/ovas/vm-alma9/

(...)

$ onetemplate list
ID USER     GROUP    NAME               REGTIME
63 onepoc   oneadmin vm-alma9    03/24 16:34:34

$ onetemplate instantiate 63
VM ID: 103
```

### Example of Importing an OVA with Multiple DSs and VNETs

The source OVA has two disks and two NICs, as can be seen from the `.ovf` file:

```default
<DiskSection>
    <Info>List of the virtual disks</Info>
    <Disk ovf:capacityAllocationUnits="byte" ovf:format="http://www.vmware.com/interfaces/specifications/vmdk.html#streamOptimized" ovf:diskId="vmdisk1" ovf:capacity="8589934592" ovf:fileRef="file1"/>
    <Disk ovf:capacityAllocationUnits="byte" ovf:format="http://www.vmware.com/interfaces/specifications/vmdk.html#streamOptimized" ovf:diskId="vmdisk2" ovf:capacity="2147483648" ovf:fileRef="file2"/>
</DiskSection>
<NetworkSection>
    <Info>The list of logical networks</Info>
    <Network ovf:name="VM Network 0">
    <Description>The VM Network 0 network</Description>
    </Network>
    <Network ovf:name="VM Network 1">
    <Description>The VM Network 1 network</Description>
    </Network>
</NetworkSection>
```

Example command on how to import an OVA with two disks and two network interfaces, importing each disk to a different Datastore and assigning each NIC to a different VNET:

```default
$ oneswap import --ova /home/onepoc/ovas/ubuntu2404.ova --datastore 1,101 --network 1,0
Running: virt-v2v -v --machine-readable -i ova /home/onepoc/ovas/ubuntu2404.ova -o local -os /tmp/ubuntu2404/conversions/ -of qcow2 --root=first

Setting up the source: -i ova /home/onepoc/ovas/ubuntu2404.ova

(...)

$ onetemplate list
ID  USER     GROUP    NAME                  REGTIME
101 onepoc   oneadmin ubuntu2404    04/10 12:55:03
```

The OS Image is imported in Datastore 1 and the Datablock Image is imported in Datastore 101, and the VM Template has one NIC using VNET 1 and a second NIC using VNET 0.

```default
$ oneimage list
ID  USER     GROUP    NAME            DATASTORE     SIZE TYPE PER STAT RVMS
151 onepoc   oneadmin ubuntu2404_1    NFS image       2G DB    No rdy     0
150 onepoc   oneadmin ubuntu2404_0    default         8G OS    No rdy     0

$ onetemplate show 101 | grep NIC -A 1
NIC=[
    NETWORK_ID="1" ]
NIC=[
    NETWORK_ID="0" ]
```

### Example of Importing VMDK Uninstalling VMware Tools

Example command on how to import a VMDK disk using the Datastore ID 101:

```default
[onepoc@nebulito ~]$ oneswap import --vmdk /home/onepoc/ovas/vm-debian125/vm-debian125-1.vmdk --datastore 101 --remove_vmtools
Converting the Image => Converting disk /home/onepoc/ovas/vm-debian125/vm-debian125-1.vmdk to qcow2...
    (100.00/100%)
Disk converted successfully in 58.15 seconds.
Converted image: /tmp/vm-debian125-1/conversions/vm-debian125-1.qcow2

(...)

Allocating image 0 in OpenNebula
Waiting for image to be ready. Timeout: 120 seconds.
Created image: 174
Deleting password files.
No such file or directory @ apply2files - /tmp/vm-debian125-1/vpassfile

[onepoc@nebulito ~]$ oneimage list
ID  USER     GROUP    NAME                DATASTORE     SIZE TYPE PER STAT RVMS
174 onepoc   oneadmin vm-debian125-1_0    NFS image       5G OS    No rdy     0
```

## Context Injection

OneSwap will detect the guest operating system and try to inject the context packages available from the [one-apps](https://github.com/opennebula/one-apps) repository.

Context injection will be performed following these steps:

1. Install context using package manager for the distro. However, this step may fail and trigger the execution of the fallback context installation command:

```default
Inspecting disk...Done (3.92s)
Injecting one-context...Running: virt-customize -q -a /tmp/vm-alma9/conversions/vm-alma9-sda --run-command 'subscription-manager repos --enable codeready-builder-for-rhel-9-$(arch)-rpms' --run-command 'yum -y install https://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/epel-release-latest-9.noarch.rpm' --copy-in /var/lib/one/context//one-context-6.10.0-3.el9.noarch.rpm:/tmp --install /tmp/one-context-6.10.0-3.el9.noarch.rpm --delete /tmp/one-context-6.10.0-3.el9.noarch.rpm --run-command 'systemctl enable NetworkManager.service || exit 0'
Failed (6.31s)
```

2. Context will be installed using a fallback method of copying the context packages into the guest OS and installing it on the first boot in case the previous step fails. Sometimes it will be necessary to boot twice in order for this method to work.

```default
Running: virt-customize -q -a /tmp/vm-alma9/conversions/vm-alma9-sda --firstboot-install epel-release --copy-in /var/lib/one/context//one-context-6.10.0-3.el9.noarch.rpm:/tmp --firstboot-install /tmp/one-context-6.10.0-3.el9.noarch.rpm --run-command 'systemctl enable network.service || exit 0'
Success (42.24s)
Context will install on first boot, you may need to boot it twice.
```

{{< alert title="Note" color="success" >}}
If context injection does not work after importing, it is also possible to install one-context **before exporting the OVA** from VMware using the packages available in the one-apps repository and uninstalling VMware Tools. In this case it is important to be aware that the one-context service will get rid of any manual network configurations done to the guest OS and the VM won’t be able to get the network configuration from VMware anymore.{{< /alert >}}

## Additional `virt-v2v` Options

The following parameters can be tuned for virt-v2v, defaults will be applied if no options are provided.

| Parameter                             | Description                                                                                                                                                                   |
|---------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--v2v-path /path/to/ovf/files/`      | Path to the OVA file or folder containing the OVF files. Default: `virt-v2v`.                                                                                                |
| `--work-dir \| -w /path/to/work/dir` | Directory where disk conversion takes place, will make subdir for each VM. Default: `/tmp`.                                                                                  |
| `--format \| -f name [ qcow2 \| raw ]` | Disk format `[ qcow2 \| raw ]`. Default: `qcow2`.                                                                                                                               |
| `--virtio /path/to/iso`             | Full path of the win-virtio ISO file. Required to inject VirtIO drivers to Windows Guests.                                                                                |
| `--win-qemu-ga /path/to/iso`        | Install QEMU Guest Agent to a Windows guest.                                                                                                                                  |
| `--qemu-ga`                           | Install qemu-guest-agent package to a Linux guest, useful with `–custom` or `–fallback`.                                                                                      |
| `--delete-after`                      | Removes the leftover conversion directory in the working directory which contains the converted VM disks and descriptor files.                                            |
| `--vddk /path/to/vddk/`               | Full path to the VDDK library, required for VDDK-based transfer.                                                                                                              |
| `--virt-tools /path/to/virt-tools`    | Path to the directory containing `rhsrvany.exe`, defaults to `/usr/local/share/virt-tools`. See [https://github.com/rwmjones/rhsrvany](https://github.com/rwmjones/rhsrvany). |
| `--root option`                       | Choose the root filesystem to be converted. Can be `ask`, `single`, `first` or `/dev/sdX`.                                                                                        |
