content/software/migration_from_vmware/oneswap.md, before:

---
title: "Migrating VMs with OneSwap"
date: "2025-02-17"
description: "The OneSwap command-line tool allows a convenient migration of Virtual Machines and appliances from VMware."
categories:
pageintoc: "268"
tags:
weight: "1"
---

<a id="oneswap"></a>

<!--# OneSwap -->

OpenNebula provides [OneSwap](https://github.com/OpenNebula/one-swap), a command-line tool designed to simplify migrating Virtual Machines from vCenter to OpenNebula. OneSwap has been used in the field with a 96% success rate in converting VMs automatically, greatly simplifying and speeding up the migration process.

OneSwap supports importing Open Virtual Appliances (OVAs) previously exported from vCenter/ESXi environments. The [Managing OVAs and VMDKs]({{% relref "import_ova" %}}) guide provides instructions, with complete examples.

{{< alert color="success" >}}
OneSwap is part of a set of tools and services designed to guide you in achieving a smooth transition from VMware. These include the [VMware Migration Service](https://support.opennebula.pro/hc/en-us/articles/18919424033053-VMware-Migration-Service), a complete guidance and support framework to help organizations define and execute their migration plan with minimal disruption to business operations. Further information is available in [Migrating from VMware to OpenNebula](https://support.opennebula.pro/hc/en-us/articles/17225311830429-White-Paper-Migrating-from-VMware-to-OpenNebula).
{{< /alert >}}

## Installation and requirements

The package `opennebula-swap`, provided on the official repositories, provides the command `oneswap`.

It can be installed in Ubuntu with

```
apt install opennebula-swap
```

And in Alma Linux and RHEL with

```
dnf install opennebula-swap
```

### Requirements and recommended settings

OneSwap requirements for virtual conversion from VMWare to OpenNebula are the following:
- OneSwap is only supported on Ubuntu 24.04 LTS and Alma Linux/RHEL 9 servers. On previous versions of Ubuntu and Alma/RHEL some dependencies are outdated.
- A working OpenNebula environment with capacity enough to store imported images and VMs and a user with permissions on the destination datastores. Alternatively, conversion can be done with user `oneadmin` and set the right permissions in a posterior step.
- A vCenter endpoint with valid credentials to export the VMs.
  - The parameters `vcenter`, `vuser`, `vpass` and `port` must be specified.
  - If Delta conversion mode is being used, the user running `oneswap` command must have ssh passwordless access to the ESXi host where the VMs to convert are running.
- If oneswap is ran on a different machine than OpenNebula frontend, then the following components must also be configured:
  - Set up the transfer method options (oneswap parameters `http_transfer`, `http_host` and `http_port`).

{{< alert color="success" title="OneSwap configuration" >}}
Most OneSwap parameters can be configured on the file `/etc/one/oneswap.yaml` but **the user running `oneswap` must be able to run CLI commands on the destination OpenNebula frontend** (i.e. being able to run `onevm list`). If `oneswap` is ran from the frontend as `oneadmin` user this works directly. 
{{< /alert >}}

{{< alert color="warning" title="OpenNebula CLI" >}}
If `oneswap` runs from a server different than OpenNebula frontend, [check the documentation]({{% relref "command_line_interface#cli-configuration" %}}) about installing the CLI commands and xport the variables `ONE_XMLRPC` and `ONE_AUTH` accordingly.<br/>
Normally that means populating the file `$HOME/.one/one_auth` with `username:password` and adding `export ONE_XMLRPC=http://opennebula_frontend:2633/RPC2` on the user profile, but it is recommended to check the documentation. 
{{< /alert >}}

### Optional requirements and required tools

- VDDK library is recommended to improve disk transfer speeds. As of the moment of writing, the library can be downloaded from [Broadcom developer portal](https://developer.broadcom.com/sdks/vmware-virtual-disk-development-kit-vddk/latest/). VDDK version **MUST** match the vcenter version.
- It is recommended to increase the vCenter API timeout to avoid request timeouts while converting big VMs. By default this value is 120 minutes and can be changed in vCenter at "Administration -> Deployment -> Client Configuration", allowing values up to 1440 minutes (24 hours).
- The following libraries/programs must be installed
  - `libguestfs` library, version must be >= 1.50
  - `libvirt` library, version should be >= 8.7.0
  - `virt-v2v`, stable version

Ubuntu 24.04 and AlmaLinux/RHEL 9 provide up to date versions of the packages

### Required software for migrating Windows Virtual machines

There are two requirements to convert Windows Virtual Machines:
- [VirtIO ISO drivers](https://fedorapeople.org/groups/virt/virtio-win/direct-downloads/stable-virtio/virtio-win.iso) must be stored in the `/usr/local/share/virtio-win` directory.
- [RHsrvany, an Open Source srvany implementation](https://github.com/rwmjones/rhsrvany) to create the needed Windows services during the migration. 
  - In Alma Linux and RHEL this package is a dependency of OneSwap and will be installed automatically
  - In Ubuntu [the package can be downloaded from fedoraproject.org](https://kojipkgs.fedoraproject.org/packages/mingw-srvany/1.1/11.eln153/noarch/mingw-srvany-redistributable-1.1-11.eln153.noarch.rpm). <br/>
For compatibility with older versions of virt2v the following symlinks are needed

```
ln -s /usr/share/virt-tools /usr/local/share/virt-tools
ln -s /usr/share/virtio-win /usr/local/share/virtio-win
```

{{< alert color="success" title="Installing RHsrvany on Ubuntu" >}}
Github page for the project provides instructions about how to decompress the package for Ubuntu. At the moment of writing the procedure is

```
apt install -y rpm2cpio

wget -nd -O srvany.rpm https://kojipkgs.fedoraproject.org/packages/mingw-srvany/1.1/11.eln153/noarch/mingw-srvany-redistributable-1.1-11.eln153.noarch.rpm

rpm2cpio srvany.rpm | cpio -idmv \
  && mkdir /usr/share/virt-tools \
  && mv ./usr/i686-w64-mingw32/sys-root/mingw/bin/*exe /usr/share/virt-tools/
```
{{< /alert >}}

## Migrating Virtual Machines

OneSwap supports two different modes for the migration of Virtual machines:
- **Regular mode** (non-delta)
  - **Requires VMs to be powered-off** (neither suspended or hibernating)
  - **VMs to convert must not have any snapshot**
- **Delta mode** is intended for low-downtime migrations (slower)
  - **VMs must be powered on**

### On Linux VMs
- The virtual machine must have the kernel headers installed. The name of the package may differ on each distribution, for instance, in Ubuntu the package to install is `linux-headers` and in Alma Linux is `kernel-headers`.
- The guest kernel version must support virtio drivers (kernel 2.6.30 or greater, which was issued on 2009-07-09).
- virt-v2v tool does not support updating GRUB2, if the following message is shown during the conversion process:

```
WARNING: could not determine a way to update the configuration of Grub2
```

booting the VM from a rescue CD and fixing grub may be necessary.

### On Windows VMs
- Fast startup must be disabled (Control Panel -> Power Options -> Advanced power settings)
- Installing (VirtIO Storage and Network drivers \(available at their github\))[https://github.com/virtio-win/virtio-win-pkg-scripts/blob/master/README.md] before the conversion will improve conversion times. If not, they will be injected later.
- Officially, Windows 2016 and onwards **require** UEFI boot.
- Windows VMs can only be converted with virt-v2v style transfer (`custom` and `fallback` styles will fail)

### Virtual machines with UEFI BIOS
OneSwap normally detects if the VM boots in UEFI mode and sets up OpenNebula template accordingly, but in some strange cases autodetection may fail. In these cases, modify the following options on the OpenNebula template:
- CPU architecture: `x86_64`
- Machine type: `q35`
- UEFI firmware: UEFI (for secure firmware the box must be checked)
![Setting up UEFI boot after oneswap migration](/images/oneswap/modify_UEFI.png)

## `oneswap` usage

### Transfer methods

There are four methods to transfer the images from ESX to OpenNebula. Ordered from faster to slowest:

- **Hybrid**
  - Use [RbVmomi2](https://github.com/ManageIQ/rbvmomi2) library to download locally the image before importing to OpenNebula.
  - Fast, but requires extra disk space as it copies the image.
- **VDDK Library**
  - Use VMWare Virtual Disk Development Kit library.
  - The parameter `--vddk /path/to/lib` must be defined.
- **ESXi Direct SSH transfer**
  - Copy the disk via SSH from the ESXi host. Incompatible with VDDK.
  - Requires defining the options `--esxi`, `--esxi_user` and `--esxi_pass`
- **vCenter API**
  - The slowest option (vCenter API is used to download the image).

A custom conversion option is also provided, which is only recommended as a fallback, that does not use virt-v2v. It relies on RbVmomi2, using qemu-img and virt-customize/guestfish to prepare the image for OpenNebula.

### Importing VMs 

Before migrations, `oneswap` can query ESX VMs and datacenters

| Command | Output |
| --- | --- |
| `oneswap list datacenters` | Lists Datacenters |
| `oneswap list clusters [--datacenter DCName]` | List clusters (can filter by datacenter) |
| `oneswap list vms [--datacenter DCName [--cluster ClusterName]]` | List VMs on ESX. Cluster needs the Datacenter name. |

For convenience, it is a good practice to populate the `/etc/one/oneswap.yaml` file with the values that will apply for most migrated VMs. If the user running oneswap has no permissions to edit the file, it can be copied, modified and execute `oneswap` with the parameter `--config-file NEW_CONFIG_FILE.yaml`

Commit message:

F OpenNebula/one#7431: Add Architecture and Requirements section  (#534)
(cherry picked from commit 3164d4af6b0546263da33a9f2a112a54d6e40f84)

content/software/migration_from_vmware/oneswap.md, after:

---
title: "Migrating VMs with OneSwap"
date: "2025-02-17"
description: "The OneSwap command-line tool allows a convenient migration of Virtual Machines and appliances from VMware."
categories:
pageintoc: "268"
tags:
weight: "1"
---

<a id="oneswap"></a>

<!--# OneSwap -->

OpenNebula provides [OneSwap](https://github.com/OpenNebula/one-swap), a command-line tool designed to simplify migrating Virtual Machines from vCenter to OpenNebula. OneSwap has been used in the field with a 96% success rate in converting VMs automatically, greatly simplifying and speeding up the migration process.

OneSwap supports importing Open Virtual Appliances (OVAs) previously exported from vCenter/ESXi environments. The [Managing OVAs and VMDKs]({{% relref "import_ova" %}}) guide provides instructions, with complete examples.

{{< alert color="success" >}}
OneSwap is part of a set of tools and services designed to guide you in achieving a smooth transition from VMware. These include the [VMware Migration Service](https://support.opennebula.pro/hc/en-us/articles/18919424033053-VMware-Migration-Service), a complete guidance and support framework to help organizations define and execute their migration plan with minimal disruption to business operations. Further information is available in [Migrating from VMware to OpenNebula](https://support.opennebula.pro/hc/en-us/articles/17225311830429-White-Paper-Migrating-from-VMware-to-OpenNebula).
{{< /alert >}}

## Architecture and Requirements

OneSwap can be run directly on the OpenNebula frontend or on a **dedicated server**. Running it on a separate server is recommended for production environments as it isolates the migration workload and avoids impacting the OpenNebula frontend during large or concurrent migrations.

The OneSwap server must have network access to:

- **OpenNebula Front-end**: to execute CLI commands (`onevm`, `onedatastore`, etc.) and transfer converted images to the datastores.
- **vCenter/ESXi endpoint**: to connect to the vCenter API and export virtual machine disks.

Run `oneswap` on a dedicated server with sufficient disk space to buffer VM images during conversion. This server should have high-bandwidth connectivity to both the vCenter environment and the OpenNebula image datastores to minimize migration time.

{{< image path="/images/oneswap/oneswap_architecture.svg" alt="Architecture of the OneSwap Migration Tool" align="center" width="90%" pb="20px" >}}

## Installation

The package `opennebula-swap`, provided on the official repositories, provides the command `oneswap`.

It can be installed in Ubuntu with

```
apt install opennebula-swap
```

And in Alma Linux and RHEL with

```
dnf install opennebula-swap
```

### Requirements and recommended settings

OneSwap requirements for virtual conversion from VMWare to OpenNebula are the following:
- OneSwap is only supported on Ubuntu 24.04 LTS and Alma Linux/RHEL 9 servers. On previous versions of Ubuntu and Alma/RHEL some dependencies are outdated.
- A working OpenNebula environment with capacity enough to store imported images and VMs and a user with permissions on the destination datastores. Alternatively, conversion can be done with user `oneadmin` and set the right permissions in a posterior step.
- A vCenter endpoint with valid credentials to export the VMs.
  - The parameters `vcenter`, `vuser`, `vpass` and `port` must be specified.
  - If Delta conversion mode is being used, the user running `oneswap` command must have ssh passwordless access to the ESXi host where the VMs to convert are running.
- If oneswap is ran on a different machine than OpenNebula frontend, then the following components must also be configured:
  - Set up the transfer method options (oneswap parameters `http_transfer`, `http_host` and `http_port`).

{{< alert color="success" title="OneSwap configuration" >}}
Most OneSwap parameters can be configured on the file `/etc/one/oneswap.yaml` but **the user running `oneswap` must be able to run CLI commands on the destination OpenNebula frontend** (i.e. being able to run `onevm list`). If `oneswap` is ran from the frontend as `oneadmin` user this works directly. 
{{< /alert >}}

{{< alert color="warning" title="OpenNebula CLI" >}}
If `oneswap` runs from a server different than OpenNebula frontend, [check the documentation]({{% relref "command_line_interface#cli-configuration" %}}) about installing the CLI commands and xport the variables `ONE_XMLRPC` and `ONE_AUTH` accordingly.<br/>
Normally that means populating the file `$HOME/.one/one_auth` with `username:password` and adding `export ONE_XMLRPC=http://opennebula_frontend:2633/RPC2` on the user profile, but it is recommended to check the documentation. 
{{< /alert >}}

### Optional requirements and required tools

- VDDK library is recommended to improve disk transfer speeds. As of the moment of writing, the library can be downloaded from [Broadcom developer portal](https://developer.broadcom.com/sdks/vmware-virtual-disk-development-kit-vddk/latest/). VDDK version **MUST** match the vcenter version.
- It is recommended to increase the vCenter API timeout to avoid request timeouts while converting big VMs. By default this value is 120 minutes and can be changed in vCenter at "Administration -> Deployment -> Client Configuration", allowing values up to 1440 minutes (24 hours).
- The following libraries/programs must be installed
  - `libguestfs` library, version must be >= 1.50
  - `libvirt` library, version should be >= 8.7.0
  - `virt-v2v`, stable version

Ubuntu 24.04 and AlmaLinux/RHEL 9 provide up to date versions of the packages

### Required software for migrating Windows Virtual machines

There are two requirements to convert Windows Virtual Machines:
- [VirtIO ISO drivers](https://fedorapeople.org/groups/virt/virtio-win/direct-downloads/stable-virtio/virtio-win.iso) must be stored in the `/usr/local/share/virtio-win` directory.
- [RHsrvany, an Open Source srvany implementation](https://github.com/rwmjones/rhsrvany) to create the needed Windows services during the migration. 
  - In Alma Linux and RHEL this package is a dependency of OneSwap and will be installed automatically
  - In Ubuntu [the package can be downloaded from fedoraproject.org](https://kojipkgs.fedoraproject.org/packages/mingw-srvany/1.1/11.eln153/noarch/mingw-srvany-redistributable-1.1-11.eln153.noarch.rpm). <br/>
For compatibility with older versions of virt2v the following symlinks are needed

```
ln -s /usr/share/virt-tools /usr/local/share/virt-tools
ln -s /usr/share/virtio-win /usr/local/share/virtio-win
```

{{< alert color="success" title="Installing RHsrvany on Ubuntu" >}}
Github page for the project provides instructions about how to decompress the package for Ubuntu. At the moment of writing the procedure is

```
apt install -y rpm2cpio

wget -nd -O srvany.rpm https://kojipkgs.fedoraproject.org/packages/mingw-srvany/1.1/11.eln153/noarch/mingw-srvany-redistributable-1.1-11.eln153.noarch.rpm

rpm2cpio srvany.rpm | cpio -idmv \
  && mkdir /usr/share/virt-tools \
  && mv ./usr/i686-w64-mingw32/sys-root/mingw/bin/*exe /usr/share/virt-tools/
```
{{< /alert >}}

## Migrating Virtual Machines

OneSwap supports two different modes for the migration of Virtual machines:
- **Regular mode** (non-delta)
  - **Requires VMs to be powered-off** (neither suspended or hibernating)
  - **VMs to convert must not have any snapshot**
- **Delta mode** is intended for low-downtime migrations (slower)
  - **VMs must be powered on**

### On Linux VMs
- The virtual machine must have the kernel headers installed. The name of the package may differ on each distribution, for instance, in Ubuntu the package to install is `linux-headers` and in Alma Linux is `kernel-headers`.
- The guest kernel version must support virtio drivers (kernel 2.6.30 or greater, which was issued on 2009-07-09).
- virt-v2v tool does not support updating GRUB2, if the following message is shown during the conversion process:

```
WARNING: could not determine a way to update the configuration of Grub2
```

booting the VM from a rescue CD and fixing grub may be necessary.

### On Windows VMs
- Fast startup must be disabled (Control Panel -> Power Options -> Advanced power settings)
- Installing (VirtIO Storage and Network drivers \(available at their github\))[https://github.com/virtio-win/virtio-win-pkg-scripts/blob/master/README.md] before the conversion will improve conversion times. If not, they will be injected later.
- Officially, Windows 2016 and onwards **require** UEFI boot.
- Windows VMs can only be converted with virt-v2v style transfer (`custom` and `fallback` styles will fail)

### Virtual machines with UEFI BIOS
OneSwap normally detects if the VM boots in UEFI mode and sets up OpenNebula template accordingly, but in some strange cases autodetection may fail. In these cases, modify the following options on the OpenNebula template:
- CPU architecture: `x86_64`
- Machine type: `q35`
- UEFI firmware: UEFI (for secure firmware the box must be checked)
![Setting up UEFI boot after oneswap migration](/images/oneswap/modify_UEFI.png)

## `oneswap` usage

### Transfer methods

There are four methods to transfer the images from ESX to OpenNebula. Ordered from faster to slowest:

- **Hybrid**
  - Use [RbVmomi2](https://github.com/ManageIQ/rbvmomi2) library to download locally the image before importing to OpenNebula.
  - Fast, but requires extra disk space as it copies the image.
- **VDDK Library**
  - Use VMWare Virtual Disk Development Kit library.
  - The parameter `--vddk /path/to/lib` must be defined.
- **ESXi Direct SSH transfer**
  - Copy the disk via SSH from the ESXi host. Incompatible with VDDK.
  - Requires defining the options `--esxi`, `--esxi_user` and `--esxi_pass`
- **vCenter API**
  - The slowest option (vCenter API is used to download the image).

A custom conversion option is also provided, which is only recommended as a fallback, that does not use virt-v2v. It relies on RbVmomi2, using qemu-img and virt-customize/guestfish to prepare the image for OpenNebula.

### Importing VMs 

Before migrations, `oneswap` can query ESX VMs and datacenters

| Command | Output |
| --- | --- |
| `oneswap list datacenters` | Lists Datacenters |
| `oneswap list clusters [--datacenter DCName]` | List clusters (can filter by datacenter) |
| `oneswap list vms [--datacenter DCName [--cluster ClusterName]]` | List VMs on ESX. Cluster needs the Datacenter name. |

For convenience, it is a good practice to populate the `/etc/one/oneswap.yaml` file with the values that will apply for most migrated VMs. If the user running oneswap has no permissions to edit the file, it can be copied, modified and execute `oneswap` with the parameter `--config-file NEW_CONFIG_FILE.yaml`
